{"id":"eccafe484785c6bb","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/topics/news/","article_url":"https://punchng.com/topics/news/","title":"News Archives","snippet":"A Nigerian newspaper, Breaking News, Nigerian News & Multimedia, Daily publication in Nigeria covering Niger delta, general national news, politics, business, energy, sports, entertainment, fashion, lifestyle human interest stories, etc","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 March 6, 2026 11:56 am VIDEO: Oluremi Tinubu urges women to teach girls modesty, decent dressing March 6, 2026 11:53 am Jigawa sacks 22 over Ramadan feeding scam March 6, 2026 11:49 am Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents March 6, 2026 11:22 am Kaduna gov warns journalists against politicians masquerading as activists March 6, 2026 11:20 am Police assure Sokoto residents of safety ahead planned protest March 6, 2026 11:01 am Ogun poly rector warns students against drugs, cultism 2027: Declare your intentions, Makinde tells appointees eyeing elective offices March 6, 2026 12:05 pm South Korea strikes crude oil deal with UAE Business & Economy Soldiers repel terrorists’ attacks on military bases in Borno, kill insurgents News Navy, Leasing authority partner to strengthen maritime asset transparency News Jigawa women march in support of DSS over Walida Abdulhadi case News Ebonyi govt vows action, demolishes shrines over killings Metro Plus VIDEO: Oluremi Tinubu urges women to teach girls modesty, decent dressing Nigeria's First Lady, Oluremi Tinubu, calls on women to mentor young girls from disadvantaged backgrounds and teach them the virtue of modest dressing.... March 6, 2026 11:56 am Jigawa sacks 22 over Ramadan feeding scam The Jigawa State Government dismissed 22 vendors from its Ramadan feeding programme due to cheating, poor food quality, and financial misconduct.... March 6, 2026 11:53 am Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents An unidentified group has claimed responsibility for the Borno massacre in Ngoshe, where scores were killed and over 300 residents were abducted.... March 6, 2026 11:49 am Kaduna gov warns journalists against politicians masquerading as activists Kaduna Governor Uba Sani warns journalists to be vigilant against politicians masquerading as activists who he says aim to undermine Nigeria's democracy.... March 6, 2026 11:22 am Police assure Sokoto residents of safety ahead planned protest Residents of Sokoto State have been urged to go about their normal daily activities without fear following concerns over a planned protest circulating on social media. Our correspondent, who spoke wit... March 6, 2026 11:20 am Ogun poly rector warns students against drugs, cultism Ogun Poly rector warns 3,047 new students to avoid drugs, cultism, and exam malpractice, emphasizing a zero-tolerance policy on student misconduct.... March 6, 2026 11:01 am South Korea strikes crude oil deal with UAE South Korea strikes a crude oil deal with the UAE for 4 million barrels to secure supplies as tensions over the Strait of Hormuz disrupt energy markets.... March 6, 2026 10:41 am Soldiers repel terrorists’ attacks on military bases in Borno, kill insurgents Troops of Operation Hadin Kai successfully repelled coordinated terrorist attacks on military bases in Borno, neutralizing several insurgents and their lea... March 6, 2026 10:35 am Navy, Leasing authority partner to strengthen maritime asset transparency The Nigerian Navy and ELRA partner to enforce the Equipment Leasing Act, aiming to boost maritime asset transparency and strengthen economic oversight in N... March 6, 2026 10:28 am Jigawa women march in support of DSS over Walida Abdulhadi case Hundreds of women in Jigawa staged a solidarity march supporting the DSS's handling of the Walida Abdulhadi case, who was allegedly abducted by an operativ... March 6, 2026 10:21 am Ebonyi govt vows action, demolishes shrines over killings Ebonyi State Government orders the demolition of all shrines in the Amasiri community following a violent conflict and gruesome killings.... March 6, 2026 10:14 am Suspected Lakurawa gunmen kill two policemen, burn checkpoint in Kebbi Suspected Lakurawa gunmen carry out a deadly Kebbi police attack, killing two officers and burning down a checkpoint in Bagudo Local Government Area.... March 6, 2026 9:55 am Zulum appoints infrastructure expert to lead Borno investment agency Borno Governor Zulum appoints Dr. Sa’id Alkali Kori, an infrastructure finance expert, to chair the new Borno State Investment Promotion Agency.... March 6, 2026 9:50 am Ex-AGF Adoke welcomes OPL 245 settlement, demands apology Former AGF Mohammed Adoke welcomes the OPL 245 settlement, viewing it as vindication for his actions and demanding an apology for past persecution.... March 6, 2026 9:19 am NAHCON moves to prevent challenges ahead of 2026 Hajj NAHCON is preparing for the 2026 Hajj by addressing previous challenges to improve efficiency, data accuracy, and services for Nigerian pilgrims.... March 6, 2026 9:00 am Iran envoy rejects US role in choosing country’s next leader Iran's envoy to Nigeria rejects US interference, stating Iran will choose its own leader without foreign influence following Ayatollah Khamenei's death.... March 6, 2026 8:53 am Morning recap: DIG Mba, others retire as seven AIGs await promotion, Dangote, marketers clash over petrol price, other headlines Get your daily recap of Nigerian news headlines. Top stories include DIG Mba's retirement, Dangote's petrol price clash, and updates on regional conflicts.... March 6, 2026 7:58 am Australia forces porn sites to block under-18s Australia's eSafety regulator now requires porn websites to implement robust age verification technology to block users under 18 from accessing content.... March 6, 2026 7:36 am GAIA Africa honours Okonjo-Iweala, inducts new members March 8 GAIA Africa, a private club for women leaders, will honour Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and induct new members during its awards night on March 8th.... March 6, 2026 7:20 am Ogun registers 1,629 women groups for empowerment Ogun State registers 1,629 Women Affinity Groups for the Nigeria for Women Programme, reinforcing its commitment to women's economic empowerment and inclus... March 6, 2026 6:00 am US approves temporary sale of stranded Russian oil to India The U.S. Treasury temporarily eases Russian oil sanctions, allowing stranded crude oil to be sold to India to stabilize global energy markets.... March 6, 2026 5:50 am Iran missile barrage sparks explosions over Tel Aviv An Iranian missile barrage sparked explosions across Tel Aviv, with no reported casualties. Israel's military intercepted incoming fire amid rising tension... March 6, 2026 5:43 am Cuba reports fifth death from US speedboat shootout A fifth person has died following the Cuba speedboat shootout with the coast guard. Authorities have filed terrorism charges against the surviving crew.... March 6, 2026 5:41 am C'River Assembly suspends lawmaker over alleged domestic assault The Cross River State House of Assembly indefinitely suspends lawmaker Dickson Agbor following allegations of domestic assault, pending an investigation.... March 6, 2026 4:06 am Kano Assembly initiates deputy gov impeachment amid political realignment The Kano State House of Assembly has initiated impeachment proceedings against Deputy Governor Aminu Gwarzo over allegations of gross misconduct.... March 6, 2026 4:01 am Ekiti ex-commissioner empowers boys to combat GBV Learn how a former Ekiti official is empowering boys to combat GBV by promoting positive masculinity and challenging harmful norms through a new workshop.... March 6, 2026 1:47 am Court remands siblings over alleged N35m theft Two siblings face remand over an alleged N35m theft case. They are accused of stealing jewelry, clothes, and more from their elder brother in Lagos.... March 6, 2026 1:46 am Electoral Act: IPAC threatens 2027 election boycott Nigeria's Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) threatens to boycott the 2027 general election if controversial sections of the new Electoral Act are not ame... March 6, 2026 1:45 am FG approves 100% gratuity for retiring civil servants The Nigerian Federal Government has approved a 100% civil servant gratuity for retirees. This new exit benefit scheme will be effective from January 2026.... March 6, 2026 1:42 am Low returns on varsity research spending worry FG The Nigerian government expresses concern over low economic returns from university research, emphasizing the urgent need for effective research commercial... March 6, 2026 1:28 am FG tightens academic record verification to curb certificate fraud The Nigerian Federal Government is tightening academic record verification to combat certificate fraud and restore integrity to its education system.... March 6, 2026 1:27 am Page 1 of 8653","published_at":null,"fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:01+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"0d0eec4d6119e81ccf261bec40ad0527a900808e","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 march 6 2026 11 56 am video oluremi tinubu urges women to teach girls modesty decent dressing march 6 2026 11 53 am jigawa sacks 22 over ramadan feeding scam march 6 2026 11 49 am group claims responsibility for borno massacre abduction of 300 residents march 6 2026 11 22 am kaduna gov warns journalists against politicians masquerading as activists march 6 2026 11 20 am police assure sokoto residents of safety ahead planned protest march 6 2026 11 01 am ogun poly rector warns students against drugs cultism 2027 declare your intentions makinde tells appoin","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"79853748f611149f","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/category/news/top-news","title":"Top News Archives","snippet":"News","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT South West INEC releases final list of candidates for Osun 2026 governorship election byFolashade Ogunrinde March 6, 2026 News Reports Adoke demands apology from Nigerian gov’t over persecution in OPL 245 dispute March 6, 2026 Top News Senate summons Kyari, ex-NNPC officials over N210trn alleged discrepancies March 6, 2026 Top News Top News PHOTOS: Renowned scholar Biodun Jeyifo buried in Ibadan byOluwakemi Adelagun March 6, 2026 Literary critic Biodun Jeyifo was buried in Ibadan on Wednesday. Read moreDetails Top News FAAN complies with Tinubu’s directive, adopts hybrid payment at airports byAgency Report March 6, 2026 She said the president’s intervention was a major relief for both the travelling public and the aviation industry. Read moreDetails Headline Stories Tinubu announces ‘historic’ deal to end decades-long OPL 245 controversy byKabir Yusuf March 6, 2026 The presidency said the agreement paves the way for a development that could add approximately 150,000 barrels per day to... Read moreDetails Top News Reps probe N365m National Library project abandonment in Jalingo bySharon Eboesomi March 5, 2026 The lawmakers commenced the investigation following a petition by BudgIT Foundation, a civic organisation. Read moreDetails South East Reps approve N140bn budget for South East Development Commission bySharon Eboesomi March 5, 2026 The SEDC MD further disclosed plans to construct railways across the five South-east states to enhance trade, improve regional connectivity,... Read moreDetails Top News Reps probe disability commission over alleged ₦97m POS procurement bySharon Eboesomi March 5, 2026 The lawmakers were also told that other training programmes and procurement exercises undertaken by the commission involved inflated contract values. Read moreDetails News Reports Another firm linked to Nestoil Group gets injunction against EFCC, others byRonald Adamolekun March 5, 2026 The order also forbids the anti-corruption agency from freezing the accounts or take any action whatsoever against the company to... Read moreDetails Foreign US/Israel-Iran war: Iran says terrorists moving in border area as Trump turns to Kurdish rebels byBeloved John March 5, 2026 Mr Trump, before and after the death of the Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, had urged Iranians to take to the... Read moreDetails South South Nigerian lawmaker suspended ‘indefinitely’ over alleged assault on wife bySaviour Imukudo March 5, 2026 The police declined comment on the matter, saying that no formal complaint had been filed. Read moreDetails Headline Stories Ex-Bayelsa Governor Seriake Dickson quits PDP byAbdulqudus Ogundapo March 5, 2026 He explained that his decision to leave the party was due to the irreconcilable leadership crisis in the PDP, the... Read moreDetails Headline Stories We arrested lawyer with $2m cash allegedly belonging to Emefiele – EFCC witness byFalmata Daniel March 5, 2026 The EFCC agent told the court that the lawyer confirmed during interrogation that the suspicious $2 million cash belonged to... Read moreDetails North West Why we are impeaching deputy governor – Kano Assembly byAbubakar Ahmadu Maishanu March 5, 2026 The assembly, at Thursday's plenary, served the deputy governor with the impeachment notice after a motion moved by the majority... Read moreDetails Football CAF announces new dates for WAFCON 2026 byTunde Eludini March 5, 2026 The 2026 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations doubles as Africa’s qualifying route to the 2027 World Cup in Brazil Read moreDetails North East How ex-PDP chairperson clinched APC leadership in Taraba byChuwang Dungs March 5, 2026 At the APC state congress held in Jalingo late Tuesday, Abubakar Bawa, until recently the PDP chairman in the state,... Read moreDetails North Central Why I dumped PDP – Nasarawa governorship candidate byChuwang Dungs March 5, 2026 The two-time PDP governorship candidate says he is “tired” of leading the opposition after eight years. Read moreDetails North East Nigerian military kill terrorists after attack on Borno base byMuhammad M. Ali March 5, 2026 The Boko Haram terrorists carried out the attack on Tuesday evening shortly after residents broke their Ramadan fast Read moreDetails Top News Court acquits Abba Kyari, brothers of non-declaration of assets charges, while cocaine trial continues byPremium Timesand1 others March 5, 2026 The judge held that the NDLEA failed to prove the non-disclosure of assets charges against Mr Kyari and his brothers... Read moreDetails North West Why I met Jigawa opposition leaders – Ex-defence minister byAbubakar Ahmadu Maishanu March 5, 2026 Mr Badaru has held talks with a former senator and current ADC chieftain in the state, Ubale Shitu, and, most... Read moreDetails Foreign US bombs Iranian warship invited by India for naval exercise byBeloved John March 5, 2026 The country also disclosed that around 180 people were believed to have been aboard the Iris Dena, based on the... Read moreDetails Gender Police arrest man, 62, over alleged rape of 12-year-old girl in Ondo byAgency Report March 5, 2026 The police said the minor's mother reported the incident to the police on 3 March after which the case was... Read moreDetails North West Kano Assembly serves deputy governor impeachment notice byAbubakar Ahmadu Maishanu March 5, 2026 The assembly, at Thursday's plenary, served the deputy governor with the impeachment notice after a motion moved by the majority... Read moreDetails Headline Stories N2.5bn Fraud Charges: Ex-minister Stella Oduah, co-defendant begin returning alleged looted funds byFalmata Daniel March 5, 2026 The terms of agreement between the AGF office and Ms Oduah for the return of looted funds alleged in the... Read moreDetails Headline Stories Jigawa 2027: Ex-defence minister meets opposition leaders amidst defection rumours byAbubakar Ahmadu Maishanu March 5, 2026 Despite his public denial of plans to defect from the ruling APC to the ADC, recent public engagements of former... Read moreDetails Top News Erratic Electricity: Nigeria to establish Grid Asset Management Company byAgency Report March 5, 2026 “The president has seen that where the problem is mainly in our quest to solve the power problem is largely... Read moreDetails Top News NMEC targets 50mn Nigerians for digital literacy as govt restates ban on new tertiary institutions byQosim Suleiman March 5, 2026 The council also granted comprehensive insurance coverage for the 180 federal unity schools nationwide. Read moreDetails New Arrivals Advertisement All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":null,"fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:24+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"25f8dc12f17af6c7cb97852d96be8b21824db822","text_fingerprint":"advertisement south west inec releases final list of candidates for osun 2026 governorship election byfolashade ogunrinde march 6 2026 news reports adoke demands apology from nigerian gov t over persecution in opl 245 dispute march 6 2026 top news senate summons kyari ex nnpc officials over n210trn alleged discrepancies march 6 2026 top news top news photos renowned scholar biodun jeyifo buried in ibadan byoluwakemi adelagun march 6 2026 literary critic biodun jeyifo was buried in ibadan on wednesday read moredetails top news faan complies with tinubu s directive adopts hybrid payment at airpo","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"ad7ff15ff2502be3","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/859477-akwa-iboms-paradox-luxury-suvs-for-ex-officials-while-pupils-sit-on-floors.html","title":"Akwa Ibom’s Paradox: Luxury SUVs for ex-officials while pupils sit on floors","snippet":"While billions of naira flow through government coffers and SUVs glide into private garages, pupils in Akwa Ibom classrooms sit on bare floors waiting for desks that were budgeted but never delivered.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Pupils at Ibiaku Itam Primary school sitting on bare floor to learn Akwa Ibom’s Paradox: Luxury SUVs for ex-officials while pupils sit on floors While billions of naira flow through government coffers and SUVs glide into private garages, pupils in Akwa Ibom classrooms sit on bare floors waiting for desks that were budgeted but never delivered. byEkemini Simon February 25, 2026 Reading Time: 6 mins read A disturbing video from a public primary school in Ibiaku Itam, Itu Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, surfaced on social media recently. The footage captured a classroom in disrepair, lacking basic facilities, exposing a quiet emergency that is gradually becoming the norm in oil-rich Akwa Ibom. Inside the classroom at Primary School, Ibiaku Itam in Ikot Mbonde Community, only four functional dual desks were visible. Four pupils sat on a desk meant for two. Several children sat on the bare floor, hunched over exercise books. Some lie flat on their stomachs to write. Others balanced on broken planks. One of their teachers, without a table, perched on a stool. The windows were dilapidated, the floor cracked, and the roof sagged. The footage was a scene that could easily be mistaken for a forgotten rural outpost. However, this school is within the Uyo capital city. A drop in the ocean According to the 2022 approved budget, Akwa Ibom has 1,164 public primary schools. The Governor Umo Eno administration is constructing 31 model primary schools, one in each local government area of the state. Though not all are completed, those inaugurated have new structures and modern seats. But if you take out the 31 model schools, you still have 1,133 others, many of which are unattended to. In many of these unattended schools, especially in rural and semi-urban communities, old, broken, or inadequate seats remain the norm. Primary School in Ibiaku Itam is not an isolated case; it reflects what obtains across the state. Budgets that did not sit Documents reviewed by PREMIUM TIMES showed that Mr Eno’s administration budgeted for seats in public schools, but it appears the administration did not consider it a priority. The first budget prepared and executed by the administration was the 2023 revised budget. In it, N16 million was approved for 400 dual desks, 50 pupil plastic tables/chairs, and 100 children’s plastic tables/chairs for Early Childhood Care Development Education (ECCDE) centres. However, the Budget Performance Report covering January to September 2023 showed no expenditure was made on these items. In 2024, the administration repeated the budgetary provision for the seats. N12 million was budgeted for 1,000 dual desks for public primary schools, and 50 plastic tables/chairs for pupils. Again, between January and September 2024, there was no recorded expenditure. No publicly available records exist for expenditures made between October and December for 2023 and 2024. Official requests to the Commissioner for Education and the Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education for the data were not responded to. In 2025, the allocations included N1 million for 400 children’s plastic chairs; N1.6 million for 1,000 dual desks; N2 million for 50 pupil plastic tables/chairs; N4 million for 100 plastic chairs for primary pupils; and N4 million for 100 children’s plastic tables/chairs for ECCDE centres. The state has not published its 2025 Budget Performance Report, which provides detailed expense information. It remains unknown if funds were spent on seats for primary schools. PREMIUM TIMES sent enquiries to the Commissioner for Education, Ubong Umoh, and the Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Anietie Etuk, requesting data on the number of seats procured for pupils and teachers, costs, and beneficiary schools between 2023 and January 2026. The newspaper also requested clarification on why the ministry’s routine monitoring and oversight failed to identify the inadequacies at Ibiaku Itam Primary School, and what concrete plans the ministry has for 2026 to address the identified shortages of seats in primary schools. The education commissioner, through the ministry’s information officer, Nkoyo Inyangette, responded on 16 February: “We are working on it, will furnish you with feedback soon.” The official has yet to get back since then. The SUBEB chairman dismissed the viral footage as “Facebook content creation,” insisting that the state has been paying counterpart funding to the Universal Basic Education Commission to unlock funds for necessary infrastructure within primary schools in the state. When asked for clarification on whether the state depended solely on the federal government’s matching grant to address the needs of primary schools across the state, Mr Etuk promised to provide detailed data on the seats provided by the administration across schools by 18 February evening. A follow-up reminder on 19 February afternoon through WhatsApp was read but not answered as of the time of this report. Billion-naira question The rot in Akwa Ibom public schools existed long before Governor Eno’s administration. In 2018, PREMIUM TIMES published a six-part investigative series on how corruption, poor budget planning and implementation, and outright neglect led to the near collapse of public education in the state. One of the series focused on the decayed infrastructure at a top science college, where students were raised in squalor “like animals”, while another focused on how unpaid teachers were dying. However, the situation has persisted under Mr Eno. In 2025, Akwa Ibom recorded its highest-ever revenue – N1.134 trillion. The state reported total spending of N1.330 trillion. Among the year’s prominent expenditures was the donation of SUVs to seven former deputy governors and political party leaders, including the APC’s Stephen Ntukekpo and PDP’s Aniekan Akpan, as well as the chairman of the state chapter of the Inter-Party Advisory Council, Blessing Umoh. Ex-Deputy Governor Etim Okoyo receives car documents from Governor Eno (PHOTO CREDIT: Akwa Ibom State Government on Facebook) The deputy governors who benefited were Etim Okoyo, Chris Ekpenyong, Michael Udofia, Patrick Ekpotu, Nsima Ekere, Valerie Ebe and Moses Ekpo. Among them, Mr Ekpenyong later served as a senator between 2019 and 2023, while Mr Ekere served as managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission from 2016 to 2018. Each SUV, according to the 2025 approved budget, costs N100 million. Ten of them amounted to N1 billion. Citizens questioned the priority given to former deputy governors who were already pampered by state funds. They also questioned why public funds should be used for the luxury comforts of political party leaders, given the wide social infrastructure gaps in the state. The SUVs donated to the Ex-Deputy Governors (PHOTO CREDIT: Akwa Ibom State Government on Facebook) At the 2025 procurement rate as contained in the 2025 approved budget, N40,000 per table/chair is budgeted for primary schools based on a N4 million allocation for 100 units. N1 billion could procure at least 25,000 seats for pupils. Twenty-five thousand seats would not merely furnish a classroom. They could transform learning conditions across dozens of schools. Instead, in Primary School Ibiaku Itam, pupils sit on the floor. Second chance in 2026 In the 2026 budget, allocations for seats to primary schools have significantly increased – N18.57 million for 100 children’s plastic tables/chairs for ECCDE centres, and N18.57 million for 100 plastic tables/chairs for pupils. For the first time, beneficiary schools are explicitly named – N5.57 million has been approved for 30 pupil plastic tables/chairs at Emeroke, Eastern Obolo Local Government Area, and Migrant Farmers Children School in Odu, Itu Local Government Area. Additionally, 600 dual desks are approved for each of the following schools: Lutheran Primary School, Obio Ubuim (Nsit Ubium); Annang Peoples School, Ukpom Abak; Primary School Ikot Obio Eka, Etinan; and Methodist Central School, Ete, Ikot Abasi, at a combined cost of N62 million. While specificity marks progress, history tempers optimism, since this is not the first time funds have been budgeted for school seats. Billions to local government councils, silence on primary responsibility Under Section 2 of the Fourth Schedule of Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution, local government councils participate in the provision and maintenance of primary education. Checks into FAAC allocations show that Itu Local Government Area, where Ibiaku Itam Primary School is located, is not gasping for resources. From January to November 2025, Itu received N4.62 billion in FAAC allocations, excluding internally generated revenue. Yet Itu, like other councils in Akwa Ibom, does not publish its budget online despite the requirement under the Akwa Ibom State Fiscal Responsibility Law (Volume III, Cap 56, Laws of Akwa Ibom State 2022). Section 47(2) mandates all Ministries, Departments and Agencies, including local governments, to maintain functional online portals that publish budgets, implementation reports, and audited financial statements. Findings show that no local government council in the state, including Itu, has its budget available online. When contacted, the Itu council chairperson, Ubong Nkutt, hung up the phone after our reporter introduced himself. Further calls were unanswered. A follow-up message seeking clarification on 2025 and 2026 seat provisions for primary schools and plans to address the deficit at Ibiaku Itam was not answered as of the time of filing this report. It is inhuman – Experts Education experts say the scene in Ibiaku Itam Primary School, among other schools where pupils sit on bare floors to learn, is more than an infrastructure failure; rather, it is a direct assault on effective learning. Idongesit Archibong, a professor in the Department of Early Childhood Education at the University of Uyo, told PREMIUM TIMES that discomfort fundamentally undermines the learning process. “For you to study effectively, you must not be uncomfortable,” he said. “In learning, method, environment and content are very important. If any of these is missing, learning is no longer effective.” Mr Archibong explained that the physical environment directly shapes how teachers deliver lessons and how pupils participate. At the primary level, where demonstration methods are crucial, seating arrangements matter. “Sitting on the floor will affect the teacher’s teaching method. The demonstration method, which is needed for pupils at that age, becomes more tedious, and participation becomes difficult compared to when pupils are seated properly at desks,” he said. He warned of psychological and physical effects, too. “The floor is hard. The child cannot concentrate. The concentration level will be very poor. Everything about such learning is very negative. It is very bad and inhuman to allow kids to sit on the floor and learn in primary school. No government should subscribe to that.” Mr Archibong posed a question to those in authority. “Imagine you are the Speaker of the House of Assembly. Will you allow your child to go to school and sit on the floor? READ ALSO: Akwa Ibom’s N2.53 trillion revenue in 32 months under Eno surpasses its previous eight-year earnings “If you are in the corridors of power, you should ensure these children at least learn like your own children. These are children of parents who voted for you. The least the government can do is give them a minimum level of comfort while learning.” Also, Akanimo Sampson of Rebuilders Foundation, a civil society organisation working with children and young people, said the organisation’s field engagement shows that pupils who sit on bare floors are negatively affected. And that is reflected in the children’s performance. “When children sit on bare floors to learn, it sends a powerful psychological message before any lesson is taught,” she said. “It tells the child, silently but consistently, that their comfort, dignity and learning experience are not important. Over time, this affects concentration, self-worth, motivation and even how seriously they take education.” Ms Sampson said that learning is not purely cognitive. “It is physical and emotional. A child who is uncomfortable, distracted by pain or fatigue, cannot fully engage, explore curiosity or retain information.” For her, the situation reflects a deeper governance problem. “In a system where luxury vehicles are routinely provided for political office holders, it is difficult to argue that the absence of basic classroom seating is due to a lack of resources. It reflects a lack of awareness of what truly drives development.” According to her, if government officials fully understood the long-term impact of early learning environments, providing chairs for pupils would never be in question. “Education cannot be claimed as a priority when the most basic learning conditions are ignored. Investing in children is not charity; it is nation-building. How a society treats its learners today determines the quality of its leaders, workforce and citizens tomorrow,” she said. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Nigerian workers’ union declares support for Cuba, condemns US blockade Next Post Singer Market Fire: Kano govt sets up committee to disburse N8bn to victims Ekemini Simon All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-02-25T05:03:12+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:28+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"62f13dd830e575abfda24931129d5b1d98a26066","text_fingerprint":"advertisement pupils at ibiaku itam primary school sitting on bare floor to learn akwa ibom s paradox luxury suvs for ex officials while pupils sit on floors while billions of naira flow through government coffers and suvs glide into private garages pupils in akwa ibom classrooms sit on bare floors waiting for desks that were budgeted but never delivered byekemini simon february 25 2026 reading time 6 mins read a disturbing video from a public primary school in ibiaku itam itu local government area of akwa ibom state surfaced on social media recently the footage captured a classroom in disrepa","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"a06803930ff8d6f0","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/858816-special-report-how-gas-flaring-turns-akwa-iboms-oil-communities-into-a-furnace.html","title":"SPECIAL REPORT: How gas flaring turns Akwa Ibom’s oil communities into a furnace","snippet":"In three Akwa Ibom oil communities, families now live with blazing gas flares turning night into daylight, poisoned air and water ...","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT SPECIAL REPORT: How gas flaring turns Akwa Ibom’s oil communities into a furnace In three Akwa Ibom oil communities, families now live within metres of blazing gas flares that have turned night into daylight, poisoned air and water, and exposed the widening gap between Nigeria’s oil wealth and the lives sacrificed for it. 2 weeks ago Share Facebook Twitter WhatsApp Ekemini Simon 0 Subscriber Reading Time: 6 mins read In some oil-producing communities in Onna, Akwa Ibom State, South-south of Nigeria, darkness has been replaced by fire. As dusk settles over Ikot Ebekpo, Ikot Ebidang and Ikot Annang in Onna, an orange glare pierces the sky. The flame rises and roars from twin stacks, casting long shadows across zinc rooftops and vibrating through walls like a low-flying jet that never passes. Children wake in fright. Mothers sit outside fanning their babies. Men pace restlessly, waiting for morning to come. “It was supposed to burn for only seven days,” says Edward George, standing metres from the flare in Ikot Ebekpo. “That is what we were told.” The flare has been burning for more than a month. “At night, the community becomes day. You cannot sleep. The heat enters your body, and you become restless. The vibration shakes your house,” he says. “No one told us this would happen.” A week after the gas flare started in early January, causing sleepless nights due to the heat, Mr George sent his children away to relatives outside the local government area. “Let me breathe the burning gas and die, not my children,” he says, his voice steady but heavy. “I cannot allow these Indians who own the company to send me packing from my own community.” Edward George In the mornings, he says, residents pull soot from their nostrils. His cassava and vegetables have withered from the relentless heat. And yet his livelihood depends on farming. Those with asthma have fled. PREMIUM TIMES observed two flare stacks blazing close to residential buildings. Using Google Earth, an open-source intelligent tool that provides satellite imagery for measurement, the nearest house sits just 118.31 metres from the flare, barely longer than a 105-metre FIFA football pitch. In denser residential clusters, homes are 256.62 metres apart, roughly 60 average cars lined bumper to bumper. Google Earth measurement from flare site to the nearest residential building Google Earth Measurement from flare site to dense residential clusters From those distances, the heat is felt, and the tremor and the fiery glow are constant. Some houses now stand abandoned, overrun by weeds, thus becoming silent witnesses to the exodus taking place in the community. Skin that burns, rivers that no longer produce fish Margaret Akpan’s voice carries both worry and anger. “Since last month when the flare started, I have had heat rashes,” she narrated. “My children, too. We have taken medication, but it refuses to go.” Margaret Akpan She says the heat rashes not only affect her family and people in the neighbourhood. “In the market, people complain of the same thing. Cough is also common now, more than before.” Across the narrow waterways of Ikot Ebidang, fishers speak of a different loss that affects their daily sustenance. When PREMIUM TIMES visited the community riverbank, the absence was striking. Neither were boats seen fishing in the waters nor bobbing against the shore. No nets lay drying in the sun. River at Ikot Ebidang without boats at the shore Francis Ekanem, a fisherman, says a strange substance now coats the water’s surface. “We suspect it is residue from the flare. The water is hotter. The fish have migrated,” he says. Francis Ekanem-a fisherman For a month, he has caught nothing. “I feed my family from fishing. Now I borrow money to eat. I am in serious debt.” The Village Secretary, Nsa Victor, says the impact reaches beyond the river. “Our roofs have turned brown since the flare started in 2024 in the nearby local government area. Now that the flare is in our community, our roofs have turned black, and many roofing sheets are gone,” he explained. He rubs his eyes as he speaks. “There is itching. There are rashes. From what we have read, this flare is cancerous.” The former youth president of Ikot Ebidang, Victor Ituen, says, “The moment you arrive in Onna, the air changes. This is not global warming. This is community burning.” He says the sound is relentless, like ocean waves crashing at the shore. “We need help,” Mr Ituen said. Oil wealth beneath, fire above The flaring is linked to the Utapate field asset, wholly owned by NNPC Exploration and Production Limited (NEPL), the upstream subsidiary of Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited. Operations at the Utapate field are handled by Natural Oilfield Services Limited (NOSL), a subsidiary of Sterling Oil Exploration and Energy Production Company Limited, under a 15-year agreement signed in 2019. Production commenced in May 2024. According to NNPC Ltd data, the block is estimated to hold more than 330 million barrels of oil, 45 million barrels of condensate, and 3.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Despite the wealth that Sterling Oil and NNPC Ltd rake in in Oniong East, that wealth dissipates into the air as wasted energy, raising several concerns for the host communities. Since operations began, controversies have trailed the company’s operations. In March 2025, the Petroleum & Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria picketed the Sterling Oil over alleged anti-labour practices. In April 2025, the Akwa Ibom State Government accused the company of illegal operations and encroachment beyond the legally allotted land in Eastern Obolo, one of the host local government areas, and surrounding communities. Now, residents in Oniong East fear the expansion of the challenges into their communities. A new rig has been constructed within Ikot Ebidang’s residential area, though flaring has not yet begun there. New oil rig constructed at Ikot Ebidang “We are afraid it will get worse,” says Regina Udonsek, the women’s leader. “If they must flare, let it be very far from where people live, please.” The yearning of Uta Harry, a chief in Ikot Ebidang, is simple: “This is a residential area. Lay the pipes and flare the gas far away. They are doing this at the detriment of the people.” Law and the silence Nigeria’s Petroleum Industry Act prohibits gas flaring except in emergencies or where exemptions are granted by the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC). Section 104(1) provides that flaring without approval constitutes an offence. When contacted, Sterling Oil’s Akwa Ibom Media Manager, Aniekeme Finbarr, said the company had obtained necessary exemptions and permits. He said, “All permissions and certifications have been well done.” Mr Finbarr added that the company was informed about the issues by the Onna Local Government Council Chairman, Kufre Umoren. He said, “There is a plan for a meeting between the (Onna local government) council, community and the company for further discussions on the matter to have an understanding of what the complaints are. We heard something about heat and so on. “The situation will be reassessed and handled. That we can assure you.” PREMIUM TIMES sought clarification from NEPL regarding proximity to homes, mitigation measures and compensation plans. NNPC’s Chief Corporate Communications Officer, Andy Odeh, did not respond to calls or messages by the time this report was filed. The Akwa Ibom State Coordinator of NUPRC, Etukudoh Williams, declined comment and directed enquiries to the Abuja headquarters. Attempts to reach the commission’s national media office were unsuccessful. The Head of Media and Corporate Communications at NUPRC, Eniola Akinkuotu, did not respond to calls or messages sent to his phone. For residents living under the flare’s glow, regulatory procedure feels distant. Holding the line for survival On 11 February, the Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF), in collaboration with the Peace Point Development Foundation, convened a renewable energy dialogue in Ikot Ebidang. Community members listed what they had observed since exploration began: declining crop yields, dwindling fish catch, corroded rooftops, noise-induced insomnia, skin infections and persistent cough. Nnimmo Bassey, the executive director of HOMEF, warned that these are only immediate impacts. “If this is not stopped, there could be reproductive problems, cancer, and blood disorders,” he said. “The company responsible must be held to account, and they must take steps to allow the people to live in a healthy environment. We will accompany the community to demand accountability.” Nnimmo Bassey addressing the c … unity during the dialogue The Coordinator of Peace Point Development Foundation, Umo Isuaikoh, showed participants how to document evidence using GPS data, engage regulators such as NOSDRA and NUPRC, and renegotiate the Memorandum of Understanding governing company access. In the community’s communiqué, they demanded that associated gas be piped away from residential areas rather than flared within them, and that compensation be paid for livelihood losses. The community also demanded that health facilities and services be provided to address their health challenges caused by oil production in the area and that the government must prioritise the well-being of their communities rather than sacrificing them in efforts to increase oil production targets. Nation’s choice Nigeria seeks to raise oil production to 3 million barrels per day, while the Utapate field in Akwa Ibom is expected to contribute 80,000 barrels per day. According to data from NOSDRA gas flare tracker, between May 2024 and January 2026, 12.5 million standard cubic feet (MSCF) of gas valued at 43.7 million United States dollars and with the power generation potential of 1.2 thousand gigawatt-hour has been flared within the Utapate field. While average Nigerian household use about 1,500 kWh per year, 1.2 thousand gigawatt-hour (GWh,) which translates to 1.2 billion kWh could power about 800,000 households for one year. However, in Oniong East, families measure oil production in sleepless nights, withering farms and empty fishing nets. While the NOSDRA data puts the power generation potential of the gas burnt within the field at 1.2 thousand GWh, the gas that could power homes continues to be incinerated into the sky despite the poor electricity situation in the communities. As the communities continue to sit in forced daylight and breathe soot, they await a moment when someone in authority will decide that their lives are worth more than a burning stack. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Category: Headline Stories Investigation/Special Reports South South Top News Tags: Akwa IbomAkwa Ibom oil communitiesakwa ibom stategas flareHeadline1Ikot EbekpoIkot EbidangOil communitiesoil-producing communitiesOnnaSouth-south of NigeriaSterling Oil Ekemini Simon Next Post Arab, Muslim nations condemn US ambassador’s comment on Israel’s right to expansion All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-02-22T13:15:08+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:31+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"a131e2ea7e943b3ac7ba966f46febd7f4bc86dc6","text_fingerprint":"advertisement special report how gas flaring turns akwa ibom s oil communities into a furnace in three akwa ibom oil communities families now live within metres of blazing gas flares that have turned night into daylight poisoned air and water and exposed the widening gap between nigeria s oil wealth and the lives sacrificed for it 2 weeks ago share facebook twitter whatsapp ekemini simon 0 subscriber reading time 6 mins read in some oil producing communities in onna akwa ibom state south south of nigeria darkness has been replaced by fire as dusk settles over ikot ebekpo ikot ebidang and ikot ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"e28528e7e185eb12","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/857939-special-report-edos-n14-15-billion-extra-budgetary-spending-raises-questions-about-fiscal-discipline-under-okpebholo.html","title":"SPECIAL REPORT: Edo’s N14.15 billion extra-budgetary spending raises questions about fiscal discipline under Okpebholo","snippet":"Expenditures were made outside legislative approval, several arms and departments of the Edo government under Governor Monday Okpebholo.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Monday Okpebholo Edo state governor SPECIAL REPORT: Edo’s N14.15 billion extra-budgetary spending raises questions about fiscal discipline under Okpebholo Expenditures were made outside legislative approval, several arms and departments of the Edo government under Governor Monday Okpebholo. byEkemini Simon February 20, 2026 Reading Time: 5 mins read Various arms and departments of the Edo State Government violated the state’s appropriation law by spending beyond approved budgetary sums, an official document shows. A PREMIUM TIMES analysis of the fourth quarter 2025 Budget Performance Report (BPR) of the Edo State Government revealed a N14.15 billion extra-budgetary spending by the executive, legislature and judiciary, in what an anti-corruption group described as “fiscal failure.” From the governor’s office to the legislature and the judiciary, the report shows that many expenditures were made outside legislative approval for capital projects, overheads and personnel costs, thus raising questions about fiscal discipline, legislative oversight and the credibility of budget implementation under the Governor Monday Okpebholo administration. Capital Projects: Oversight fails at the gate The Edo State House of Assembly, constitutionally empowered to scrutinise public spending, features prominently in the breaches. The BPR shows that the construction of a new legislative building had no approved allocation in the revised 2025 budget, despite a provision of N100 million in the year’s initial budget. Yet, N20 million was spent on the project. This comes against a troubling backdrop of N900 million expended on the same project in 2024, according to the State’s 2024 audited financial report. In 2026, N250 million has also been approved for the project. Across other MDAs, the pattern continues. Under the Rural Access and Agricultural Marketing Projects, N505 million was spent against an approved N500 million, the report showed. Infrastructure development in Edo’s oil-producing areas exceeded its N15.195 billion approval by N800.39 million, while the Ministry of Works spent N640.01 million, overshooting its road construction budget of N600 million for “Textile Mill Road/ Iyoba Street/ Other Adjoining Roads/ Street, in Benin City” by N40.01 million. The most striking deviation occurred at the Edo State Public Building and Maintenance Agency, where spending on renovation and maintenance of administrative buildings ballooned from an approved N11.7 billion to N14.14 billion, an excess of N2.44 billion. The Ministry of Social Development followed closely, spending N450 million on renovating a children’s correctional centre despite an approved ceiling of N68 million, resulting in N382 million in arbitrary expenditure. Altogether, capital project overruns alone accounted for N3.7 billion. Economic Classification: Small lines, big questions Beyond projects, the BPR reveals spending tucked under economic classifications. Basic Education recorded N7.96 million in arbitrary expenses, covering welfare packages, publicity, refreshments, fuel, and travel, while Primary Healthcare posted N808,283 in extra-budgetary costs for consulting and medical expenses. Though modest compared to the billions elsewhere, the figures revealed a pattern of weak adherence to approved limits even in socially sensitive sectors. Billion-naira drift for running costs The most pervasive disregard for legislative approval of spending occurred in overhead expenditures, where the executive and legislature posted some of the largest deviations. According to the report, the Office of the Edo State Governor exceeded its revised budget by N3.64 billion, spending N13.72 billion against an approved N10.08 billion for the running cost of his office. The Directorate of Government House and Protocol followed with N1.24 billion in extra spending, while the Edo State House of Assembly, which had an approved budget of N4.67 billion, spent N7.23 billion, with a 54.9 per cent budget over-performance and N2.56 billion in arbitrary expenses. The judiciary was also involved in the extra-budgetary spending. The report recorded that the Edo State High Court of Justice exceeded its overhead ceiling by N1.17 billion, while the Edo State Multi-Door Courthouse posted one of the most alarming figures: N718.15 million spent outside its approved N60 million overhead budget. Smaller but notable excesses were also recorded across MDAs, including the Ministry of Health, Environment and Sustainability, Environmental and Waste Management Board, John Odigie Oyegun Public Service Academy, and Bendel Insurance. In total, overhead overruns accounted for N9.44 billion. Payroll beyond approval Extra-budgetary spending also crept into personnel costs in Edo. The General Services Department under the Office of the Secretary to the State Government alone exceeded its personnel budget by N645.57 million. Significant overruns were also recorded at the Edo Sports Commission (N138.9 million), College of Nursing Sciences (N143.37 million) and the College of Education (N62.2 million). Cumulatively, personnel-related breaches totalled approximately N1 billion. This will not be the first time the Edo State Government has been caught in the web of arbitrary expenditure. A review of the fourth-quarter BPR for 2024 reveals the same pattern. N4.36 billion in extra-budgetary spending was identified across 26 MDAs in the total expenditure by administrative classification alone. Of this amount, the state assembly made an extra-budgetary expenditure of N2.84 billion, which is 65.1 per cent of the total. Silence from those in charge Efforts to obtain official explanations were unsuccessful. The Commissioner for Information in Edo State, Paul Ohonbamu, did not respond to calls or text messages seeking clarification on the spending overruns or why legislative approvals were not sought. When PREMIUM TIMES contacted the Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Blessing Agbebaku, he referred us to the House Majority Leader, Jonathan Ibhamawu. Mr Ibhamawu did not respond to calls and text messages seeking his comment. CSO flags extra-budgetary spending as systemic breakdown Policy Alert, a civil society organisation that promotes fiscal governance in Africa, says that extra-budgetary spending across all arms of government in Edo State suggests a systemic breakdown in budgetary control, where approvals are treated as flexible suggestions rather than binding legal limits. Speaking with PREMIUM TIMES, Policy Alert’s Programme Officer on Governance Reforms and Anti-Corruption, Faith Paulinus, said the situation was alarming and needed urgent reform. “This, in its entirety, is a fiscal failure and if unchecked undermines legislative authority, weakens fiscal discipline, distorts development priorities, and erodes public trust in the government,” Mr Paulinus said. “For citizens already burdened by economic hardship, the stakes are high because every naira spent outside the budget is a naira diverted from planned development and from public trust. The Edo State House of Assembly must purge itself of this illegality and immediately commence an investigation into this,” he added. Development deferred The opportunity costs of diverting funds from other subheads to spend beyond the budget, especially for the governor’s office, the state legislature, and the judiciary, are stark. The 2023 Nigerian Labour Force Survey Annual Report highlights why the Edo State Government needed to spend its budgeted funds on projects that would improve citizens’ lives. The Survey shows that Edo ranks 14th lowest (including the FCT) in the employment-to-population ratio at 68.3 per cent, below the national average of 72.2 per cent. The state also ranks 10th nationally, with 19.7 per cent of youths aged 15–24 not in education, employment or training — a measure the survey stated points to underutilised human capital. In this context, every diverted naira carries social consequences, especially as extra-budgetary expenditures contrast sharply with projects that received no funding despite legislative approval. In 2025, the government budgeted N163.67 million as counterpart funding for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) projects, N20 million for the Livestock Productivity and Resilience Support Project (World Bank-assisted), and N50 million for FGN/International Fund for Agricultural Development/Niger Delta Development programmes. According to the BPR, no funds were released for these development projects and programmes. READ ALSO: Okpebholo presents ₦939.85bn Edo 2026 budget The Ministry of Business and Trade was allocated N80 million in capital expenditure for employment-boosting initiatives, including mobile entrepreneurial development programmes with startup kits, micro-credit schemes with BOI and MSME initiatives. Yet, according to the BPR, only N1.99 million was released for printing business premises certificates. Other employment-enhanced projects that were not funded included the establishment of a hatchery and provision of hatchery chemicals (N200 million); improved seed multiplication centre (N120 million); and On-farm adaptive research/greenhouse project (N150 million). The Edo State Government’s decision to incur extra-budgetary costs on controversial items while underfunding key social projects suggests it is adopting the wrong priorities. If this pattern of billions escaping legislative oversight continues, youth unemployment in Edo may remain high, agricultural expansion may stall, and entrepreneurship programmes may lie dormant. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post El-Rufai and the burden of proof, By Jacob Edi Next Post FCT Council Elections: Two chairpersons seek re-election Ekemini Simon All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-02-20T04:00:49+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:33+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"745f58bee6a9fe1d9b02bcc32ed264d8dbab2b36","text_fingerprint":"advertisement monday okpebholo edo state governor special report edo s n14 15 billion extra budgetary spending raises questions about fiscal discipline under okpebholo expenditures were made outside legislative approval several arms and departments of the edo government under governor monday okpebholo byekemini simon february 20 2026 reading time 5 mins read various arms and departments of the edo state government violated the state s appropriation law by spending beyond approved budgetary sums an official document shows a premium times analysis of the fourth quarter 2025 budget performance re","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"fc5b5a0b7c24d942","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/north-central/855110-special-report-abuja-residents-bear-the-brunt-of-poorly-regulated-quarrying-companies.html","title":"SPECIAL REPORT: Abuja residents bear the brunt of poorly regulated quarrying companies","snippet":"Despite clear provisions in the National Environmental (Quarrying and Blasting Operations) Regulations, quarrying companies breach environmental laws in Abuja, the Nigerian capital.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT SPECIAL REPORT: Abuja residents bear the brunt of poorly regulated quarrying companies Despite clear provisions in the National Environmental (Quarrying and Blasting Operations) Regulations, quarrying companies breach environmental laws in Abuja, the Nigerian capital. 4 weeks ago Share Facebook Twitter WhatsApp Popoola Ademola 0 Subscriber Reading Time: 6 mins read On 29 November, the JSS 3 students at Graceland High School in Baupma Dutse, Abuja, were writing their third-term examination when a flying rock crashed through the classroom roof during blasting at a quarry company. Thirteen-year-old Chisom Ibekwem was among 11 children and two teachers injured by splinters of the rock. The heavy rock and its pieces that struck Graceland High School in Dutse, Abuja, on Thursday, 28 November. [Photo Credit Popoola Ademola]“We were writing our second paper, Social Studies, and everybody was scared. I felt pain in my left hand. When I turned my face, I saw my colleague bleeding and shouting,” she told PREMIUM TIMES. “Usually, when they blast, the whole class vibrates, and the fans shake. There was a day when we were in basic science class, and we asked whether it could affect us. But the teacher said no. Now they have proven her wrong,” Chisom added. Affected Ceiling of JSS3 class where the rock penetrated after landing on the rooftop of Graceland High School, Dutse, Abuja. [Photo Credit Popoola Ademola]Jewel Samuel, a teacher in the school, was struck on the head by a pebble. The crashed wall of the JSS3 class of Graceland High School in Baupma Dutse, Abuja, was struck and damaged by the flying rock. [Photo Credit Popoola Ademola]“When I saw the other teacher bleeding, I became scared. It could have been me,” Ms Samuel said. The school was shut for three days after the incident, while NESREA reportedly sealed up Cornerstone, the quarry operators, after the school incident. However, three days later, when PREMIUM TIMES visited the company’s site, it had reopened. The incident was a disaster waiting to happen, the result of years of unaddressed issues in the area. Residents of Baupma Bmuko, Dutse, had expressed frustration with the activities of Cornerstone quarry. They complained about constant rock blasting, property damage, air pollution posing health risks, reckless driving by truck drivers, and road damage caused by the company. “Look at my solar panel, it is a new one, the second time I am buying it. I bought this one for N1.150 million after the first one was damaged by rock blasting,” Oluwabunmi Adegoke, a businesswoman and resident of Bmuko, said. Mrs Adegoke recalled how her grandmother cut short her visit because she could not stand the noise from Cornerstone’s operations. “My husband repairs our house, the POP and others, every year,” she added. She stated that the November incident that injured students also affected other community residents. “Many shops were damaged, including my own. A man told us that a rock crashed into his house while he was sleeping and landed on his bed,” she added. Apart from Cornerstone Quarry, owned by a Turkish company, Istanbul Quarry & Concrete Ltd, another firm, Venus Quarry, owned by a Chinese, also operates in Dutse. There are dozens of quarry sites in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Over four months, PREMIUM TIMES visited three communities and three quarry sites in different parts of the territory. We discovered a similar pattern of hazardous practices and unregulated activities at the quarries. Sand at the Dai Jin Investment Limited. Quarry site inside Aco Estate, Abuja, [Photo Credit Popoola Ademola]In ACO, an Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) estate in Lugbe, a quarry site operated by a Chinese company, Dai Jin Investment Limited, has been accused of destroying properties since it commenced operations years ago. According to information available on NG-Check, an online platform that gathers information about Nigerian companies, business addresses, owners, and others, Dai Jin was incorporated in Abuja and registered on 24 November 2011. Many residents said they had settled in the estate long before the company started operating there. Besides, commuters complained that blasting with heavy dynamite or explosive devices has wreaked havoc on their health and buildings. “I have lived in this house for over 10 years, and I think this started like six years ago. I have had to fix my POP on several occasions. My family is traumatised,” J Jikeme, a retired major general, who lives less than a kilometre from the site, told PREMIUM TIMES. “We complained to the police and took the company to court, but all to no avail. The dynamite they use is out of specification. Most of us here are retirees; we used our benefits to build our houses.” Another resident, Jacob Edi, said his property, including electronics, had been damaged many times. “Look at this crack, (point at the cracks on the wall inside his duplex). This is another one. This POP is compromised. There is heavy leakage from here, so after every rainy season, you have to renovate. “I have changed the television sets twice. This chandelier here, we just replaced it too,” Mr Edi told this newspaper. For Henry Njoku, a former commissioner of police, a vibration nearly killed his four-month-old twins. “A blast threw out my twin from the bed; they had to grab the children and run out,” he said. Kubwa community, where Zeberced Limited Quarry is located, Abuja. [Photo credit Popoola]Zeberced Limited Quarry has been operating in Kubwa, in the Bwari Area Council of Abuja, for the past five years. Unpaved road at Bmuko community, Baupma Dutse, Abuja. [Photo credit Popoola]“We are used to the sound, but the vibration is damaging the foundation of our houses,” Adewumi Kolawole, a resident of Arab Road, Kubwa, said, complaining about quarry activities in the area. Dusty, unpaved road at Arab Road, Kubwa, leading to Zeberced quarry site, Abuja. Photo credit Popoola] Bad roads, common ‘enemy’ The roads in the area are mostly unpaved, and dust billows from heavy-duty trucks plying the roads day and night. “The drivers are also reckless; most of the time speeding and honking. They have knocked people down on several occasions,” Nkem Okeke, the public relations officer (PRO) of ACO Estate, said. “You have to use a nose mask every time,” John Adewale, a civil servant, said. “If you don’t, you get catarrh and cough, which sometimes leads to malaria. “I live very close to the quarry site. Whenever they are blasting, the whole building shakes as if the world is coming to an end.” Thick dust on the unpaved road at Arab Road, Kubwa, leading to Zeberced quarry site, Abuja. [Photo credit Popoola]“The trucks are killing our people on this road. Just last week, they crushed some people standing beside the road,” Ms Adegoke recounted. Residents fleeing Many residents are reportedly moving out of areas close to the quarry sites. “I know five families who have moved out of this area because of the dust. Today they wet the road because of a protest by residents,” Ms Adegoke further narrated. A dusty, unpaved road at Arab Road, Kubwa, leading to Zeberced quarry site, Abuja. [Photo credit Popoola]A Chinese worker at Dai Jin quarry. [Photo Credit: Popoola Ademola] Licencing and regulations The National Environmental (Quarrying and Blasting Operations) Regulations, 2013, state in Section 22(1) that blasting should not cause discomfort or nuisance to the public or residents within 1,000 metres (1 km) from the epicentre of the site or road users. Quarries must conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) before operation, undergo audits every three years, ensure blasting is at least three kilometres from any buildings, use a maximum explosive limit of 35 kg per charge and three tons per blast, and provide effective community warnings, such as sirens or a 48-hour notice before blasting. These are the conditions necessary to obtain a licence from the agency and the Federal Ministry of Solid Minerals Development. The regulations also aim to prevent and minimise air and noise pollution, with specific limits for ground vibration and air blast at sensitive sites. However, this newspaper found that the quarries are mainly located within a kilometre of residential areas. Companies keep mum Officials of Istanbul Quarry and Zeberced were reluctant to speak with our reporters about their companies’ operations. Ibrahim Yahaya, a manager at Istanbul Quarry, who answered our call, refused to grant an interview. An email and phone calls were made to Zeberced via contacts obtained from its website, but they went unanswered. When PREMIUM TIMES visited Dai Jin last year, a Chinese scaler named Chris referred us to a supervisor named John, but did not provide any contact information or explain how to reach him. Nyesom Wike (CREDIT: TheCable) Government speaks In a 2024 Pulitzer Centre publication, the Minister of Solid Minerals Development, Dele Alake, stated that while quarry companies are expected to maintain a safe distance from communities, urban development often brings people closer to their sites, resulting in proximity that exceeds permissible limits. Mr Alake said before operational licences are granted, environmental impact assessments are conducted, “which involves conducting baseline studies of the environment of the virgin land, ecological studies, water and soil samples evaluation, assessment of the vegetation, amongst others.” Minister of solid minerals development, Dele Alake. He, however, said the industries are responsible for any damage to people’s property. The spokesperson of the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), Abubakar Liman, declined to comment when contacted and instead referred us to his director or the FCT Minister, Nyesom Wike. Lere Olayinka, the minister’s spokesperson, did not respond to calls or WhatsApp messages. Several reports, no solution In the past three years, there have been several reports of life-threatening incidents, property destruction, and others, caused by the unchecked activities of quarries in the FCT. A 2024 report by CrossRiver Watch revealed how a quarry blast disrupted a community in Mpape, triggering an earth tremor. Similarly, on 14 May 2025, The Nation Newspaper reported on how quarrying in the FCT endangers commuters’ lives. READ ALSO: Abuja Estate residents demand halt to rock blasting by Chinese quarry company PREMIUM TIMES also discovered that the FCT authority’s negligence has continued to fuel the gross violations of regulations by the stone industries. Nigeria Mining Sector The economic contribution of quarries and mining in general may be the reason authorities are reluctant to act. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, aggregate production of mineral products in Nigeria in 2021 grew by 39.19 per cent, from 64.29 million tonnes in 2020 to 89.48 million tonnes, indicating an improvement in production. Limestone, Granite, and Laterite were the three most mined minerals in 2021. Additionally, the Mining and Quarrying sector contributed approximately ₦1.56 trillion to the nation’s GDP between Q3 2023 and Q2 2024. The sector’s total contribution to GDP stood at 0.77 per cent in 2023. Similarly, the Solid Minerals Development Fund stated that Nigeria’s mining sector has 44 types of commercially viable minerals worth an estimated $700 billion, but limited capital injections, inadequate geospatial mapping tools, and widespread illegal mining have left the country struggling to capitalise on its reserves. Furthermore, reports indicate that many of the areas where these industries operate are facing major environmental issues due to poor practices and inadequate enforcement of regulations. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Category: Headline Stories Investigation/Special Reports North Central Tags: AbujaHeadline1Istanbul Quarry & Concrete LtdJewel SamuelNyesom Wikeraceland High School in Baupma DutseThirteen-year-old Chisom IbekwemTurkish company Popoola Ademola Fiyinfoluwa Ikuomola Next Post 'I haven't been the best daddy,' 2Baba admits All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-02-08T08:15:52+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:36+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"ff9cd345c4601d35f5cf40f8634f3a490f93d5b7","text_fingerprint":"advertisement special report abuja residents bear the brunt of poorly regulated quarrying companies despite clear provisions in the national environmental quarrying and blasting operations regulations quarrying companies breach environmental laws in abuja the nigerian capital 4 weeks ago share facebook twitter whatsapp popoola ademola 0 subscriber reading time 6 mins read on 29 november the jss 3 students at graceland high school in baupma dutse abuja were writing their third term examination when a flying rock crashed through the classroom roof during blasting at a quarry company thirteen yea","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"558f343d7943489a","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/854890-special-report-oil-spills-from-abandoned-wells-ravage-ogoniland-amidst-plans-to-resume-production.html","title":"SPECIAL REPORT: Oil spills from abandoned wells ravage Ogoniland amidst plans to resume production","snippet":"“Since this spill started, we can no longer farm or fish,” a resident of the Ogoni community said.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Yorla well head SPECIAL REPORT: Oil spills from abandoned wells ravage Ogoniland amidst plans to resume production “Since this spill started, we can no longer farm or fish,” a resident of the Ogoni community said. byEkemini Simon February 7, 2026 Reading Time: 5 mins read On 3 August 2025, residents of the Kpean community in the Khana Local Government Area of Rivers State woke up to an invisible warning. A sharp, suffocating hydrocarbon smell crept through the air, forcing people out of their homes and toward an oil facility that looms ominously over their lives and livelihoods. Before they reached the site, the land and water had already delivered the message: crude oil was spilling again. Darkened soil, slick streams and wilting vegetation announced the incident before any official confirmation. At the centre of the incident was Well 14, drilled around 1967 in the Yorla Oil Field of Oil Mining Lease (OML) 11. The abandoned, dilapidated oil well has remained in place for decades after production ceased. From its corroded wellhead, crude oil was seeping freely into nearby land and water bodies, contaminating farms, poisoning streams and destroying vegetation. For Kpean, a community in Ogoniland, this was a reminder of what they often faced when oil production was on in their domain. Three days too late The community immediately alerted the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA), the federal agency mandated to detect, respond to, and coordinate the cleanup of oil spills in Nigeria. But the official response lagged behind the spreading pollution. According to an analysis of NOSDRA documents from the agency’s Oil Spill Monitor portal, the spill was stopped three days later, on 6 August 2025, and the agency conducted a Joint Investigation Visit (JIV) on 8 August 2025, five days after the spill began. The JIV was led by NOSDRA and attended by representatives of the Rivers State Ministry of Environment, NNPC Exploration and Production Limited (NEPL), which is the operator of the asset, the host community, and security agencies, including the military Joint Task Force and the police. The JIV report estimated that about 28 barrels of crude oil, roughly 4,450 litres, were spilt from the wellhead, with 14 barrels reportedly recovered. The report attributed the cause of the spill to corrosion, noting that vegetation was the primary property impacted, with oil-stained and withering plants recorded. The affected area, the report stated, lay “within the company’s facility.” NOSDRA issued two key recommendations: that NEPL OML 11 should immediately repair the wellhead, and that the impacted spill site should be cleaned up under NOSDRA’s monitoring. On paper, the response appeared promising. On the ground, residents say it was ineffective. From neglect to flames Community members told PREMIUM TIMES that the recommendations were not promptly implemented. They reported that the oil continued to seep into the environment, unchecked. Twelve days later, on 15 August 2025, the neglected spill escalated into a fire outbreak at the site. Although the fire was eventually contained, it deepened fears that official inaction had transformed an environmental incident into a safety disaster. How the environment in Kpean community looked like after a fire blazed through the oil spill The incident might have ended there. Instead, it became a prelude. On 4 December 2025, five months after the first spill, oil was once again seen spreading across the environment. According to residents, containment efforts did not begin until 25 December 2025, 21 days after the spill. As of 26 January, more than seven weeks later, clean-up had yet to commence. Livelihoods erased, lives endangered For the people of Kpean, the spills have rewritten daily existence. SorlebaBari Appolos, a community member, said survival has become a struggle. “Since this spill started, we can no longer farm or fish,” he said. “Before now, we relied on our stream for drinking water and cooking. But now oil is flowing into our water. We no longer fetch from it. We buy sachet water to survive.” Beyond livelihoods, Mr Appolos spoke of a more profound crisis, one measured in sickness and death. SorlebaBari Appolos, a member of the Kpean community “During this spill, there has been a strange sickness in the community, leading to deaths. Yesterday, we buried two people, and today, we will bury them again.” He added that longevity has become rare in the community due to the legacy of oil pollution. “People hardly live beyond 60 years. Even young people die from complicated health issues.” Any intervention, he appealed, must prioritise healthcare. “If the federal government, through NEPL, remembers that we are humans, they should consider us.” Promises without action The Paramount Ruler of Kpean, Lucky Gbene-Ewoh, questioned why it has taken over five months without a meaningful cleanup. “Repeated petitions have only come with promises without action. Meanwhile, the strange deaths of humans and animals continue. Our people’s livelihoods are destroyed. No one can farm or fish again,” he said. The spill in Khana, however, is only one thread in the wider intricacies of pollution across Ogoniland. Cycle of spills Three months before the August 2025 spill in Kpean, oil leaked on 6 May 2025, in the B-Dere community in Gokana Local Government Area, flowing from the Bodo-West 1 oil well. In a Reuters report, civil society groups and community representatives confirmed that the spill originated from a ruptured section of the Trans Niger Pipeline, raising concerns about a delayed response and inadequate containment. There were oil spills at every axis across Ogoniland’s four local government areas of Gokana, Khana, Eleme and Tai in 2025. In April, oil spilt in Korokoro, Tai Local Government Area, from a wellhead close to a HYPREP remediation site. In February, another spill occurred in Ogale, Eleme Local Government Area. These incidents occurred in the same year that the federal government publicly revived discussions of resuming oil operations in Ogoniland. Legacy of pollution and resistance Oil production began in Ogoniland in the 1960s, ushering in decades of spills, gas flaring and environmental degradation. By 1993, community resistance led by the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP) under environmental activist Ken Saro-Wiwa forced a halt to production. The struggle culminated in the execution of Saro-Wiwa and eight other Ogoni activists on 10 November 1995, by the military regime of Sani Abacha, drawing global condemnation and entrenching the suspension of oil operations. Yet while production stopped, infrastructure did not disappear. Wells, pipelines, and flow stations were largely abandoned rather than properly decommissioned, leaving Ogoniland exposed to recurring pollution from ageing, unsafe facilities. Today, the federal government’s plans to resume oil production face stiff resistance from communities and civil society organisations, spawning campaigns such as Ogonize, spearheaded by the Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF). What the law requires, and what happens instead The NOSDRA Act of 2006 outlines clear responsibilities in the event of an oil spill. Section 6(3) stipulates that failure to clean up an impacted site attracts a fine of N1 million. Section 19 empowers the agency to advise governments on health impacts, ensure remediation, monitor emergency responses and supervise cleanup until full rehabilitation is achieved. When contacted, the Zonal Director of NOSDRA’s Port Harcourt office, Augustine Bello, said the agency was “carrying out its responsibility responsibly.” He declined to offer further comment on the matter when our reporter asked why there was no cleanup. Cleanup had still not begun in Kpean when our reporter visited the area in late January. Conflicting narratives In a response to a PREMIUM TIMES inquiry, Andy Odeh, the NNPC’s chief corporate communications officer, claimed on 3 February that remediation and recovery operations were ongoing, even if not immediately visible. He cited a 22 December 2025 field visit by the national security adviser, the minister of environment and the Group CEO of NNPC Ltd as an independent validation that the spill had been stopped and restoration was underway. “While community members may not immediately observe visible clean-up progress, structured remediation is ongoing under regulatory supervision,” Mr Odey stated. However, the NNPC’s position on the oil spill is contradicted by NOSDRA’s JIV findings. While the JIV report cited corrosion as the cause of the spill, NNPC insisted that the wellhead had been vandalised. “It is important to emphasise that the Yorla-14 well, which has been dormant for over three decades, was deliberately sabotaged. This act of vandalism, rather than corrosion or operational neglect, was the direct cause of the incident,” Mr Odey stated. NOSDRA JIV Report which highlights corrosion as cause of the spill Decommissioning promises Sections 232 and 233 of the Petroleum Industry Act and the Nigeria Upstream Petroleum Decommissioning and Abandonment Regulations 2023 provide for the decommissioning of oil facilities that have exceeded their safe operating lives. In response to PREMIUM TIMES’ request about the company’s plans to address legacy risks for the Yorla-14 well and other oil installations within the OML11 asset, the NNPC said it had launched a physical asset verification exercise to identify and secure dormant infrastructure, and promised to decommission unsafe facilities. Civil society demands justice HOMEF and the Miideekor Environmental Development Initiative have called for transparent investigations, immediate cleanup, compensation for affected farmers and fisherfolk, accelerated decommissioning of ageing infrastructure, and independent monitoring with community participation. HOMEF’s Executive Director, Nnimmo Bassey, said proposals to resume oil drilling in Ogoniland collapse under moral and practical scrutiny. “Oil spills in Ogoniland are not historical footnotes; they are ongoing events,” he said. “Reopening oil drilling under these conditions represents a dangerous misplacement of priority, choosing extraction over restoration and wellbeing.” Mr Bassey warned that a government unable to control existing pollution cannot credibly manage new extraction. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post APC reconstitutes 2026 convention committee, replaces Uzodimma with Masari Next Post Gov Sani briefs Tinubu on Kaduna security gains, infrastructure priorities Ekemini Simon All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-02-07T04:00:59+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:41+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"bf971f7e1c7d782f65cbcaa8fa8670a4d7c23450","text_fingerprint":"advertisement yorla well head special report oil spills from abandoned wells ravage ogoniland amidst plans to resume production since this spill started we can no longer farm or fish a resident of the ogoni community said byekemini simon february 7 2026 reading time 5 mins read on 3 august 2025 residents of the kpean community in the khana local government area of rivers state woke up to an invisible warning a sharp suffocating hydrocarbon smell crept through the air forcing people out of their homes and toward an oil facility that looms ominously over their lives and livelihoods before they r","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"58a7e510439610ae","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/861881-us-israel-iran-war-day-7-death-toll-rises-as-sri-lanka-rescues-iranian-sailors.html","title":"US/Israel-Iran war (Day 7): Death toll rises as Sri Lanka rescues Iranian sailors","snippet":"The war's casualties are growing quickly as it expands.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Primary school in Minab in the south of Iran (PHOTO CREDIT: timesofindia) US/Israel-Iran war (Day 7): Death toll rises as Sri Lanka rescues Iranian sailors The war's casualties are growing quickly as it expands. byBeloved John March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The war between the United States and Israel against Iran entered its seventh day today (Friday). Over 1,200 people have been killed in the war, the majority of them in Iran. We bring you major updates on the war on its seventh day. Rising death toll Over a thousand Iranians have now been reported dead due to the US and Israel’s missile attack on Tehran. The death toll in Iran from ongoing US and Israeli attacks rose to 1,230 on Thursday, according to the semi-official Tasnim news agency. PREMIUM TIME reported that the death toll was put at 1,045 a day earlier. The number had risen to 787, as previously reported. As the casualty numbers increase, there are no indications yet of an end to the war. About 12 Israelis were killed in Israel from Iranian missile strikes, including nine people who died in a missile attack on Beit Shemesh. PREMIUM TIMES reported that six US citizens have been confirmed killed. They died in an Iranian strike on a US military base in Kuwait during the conflict. Sailors receiving treatment Sri Lankan authorities say some of the Iranian sailors struck by a US submarine in the Indian Ocean are currently recovering at a hospital in the Sri Lankan port city of Galle. At least 87 were killed in the attack, and several others were reported missing early Thursday. Sri Lankan ⁠military rescuers found 32 survivors and are still searching for the missing sailors. Search and rescue operations estimate that about 60 people on board remain unaccounted for. Authorities at the National Hospital in Galle said 87 bodies were brought in by military rescuers who responded to an early-morning distress call from the IRIS Dena. The 32 rescued sailors were being treated for minor injuries and could be released from the hospital soon. According to Reuters, Tehran has asked Sri Lanka to help repatriate the bodies, but a timeframe has not yet been determined. Kuwait says tanker explosion outside its territory. Kuwait has said the large explosion on a tanker on Thursday occurred outside its territorial waters. The country’s Ministry of Interior said the incident occurred more than 60 kilometres (37 miles) away from the Mubarak al-Kabeer port. Earlier, the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said the captain of a tanker at anchor reported hearing and seeing a large explosion on the vessel’s port side, followed by a small craft leaving the area. It said all crew were safe, but that the vessel had taken on water and that oil was seen in the water from a cargo tank, potentially causing environmental impact. Qatar Airways reopened partially Qatar Airways began operating partially on Thursday, days after it closed due to the ongoing war. READ ALSO: US/Israel-Iran War: Trump wants to be involved in selection of next Iranian leader Several relief flights have been provided to help stranded passengers in Muscat and Riyadh. The airline said the flights are intended to assist travellers who were unable to continue their journeys due to the disruption. However, flights from Doha remain suspended because Qatar’s airspace is still closed. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post INEC releases final list of candidates for Osun 2026 governorship election Next Post Nigerian politicians: Signifiers of their criminal culture, By Jibrin Ibrahim Beloved John All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T10:33:54+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:46+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"6689d1268fb06ab4620045e10a2952705697ed97","text_fingerprint":"advertisement primary school in minab in the south of iran photo credit timesofindia us israel iran war day 7 death toll rises as sri lanka rescues iranian sailors the war s casualties are growing quickly as it expands bybeloved john march 6 2026 reading time 2 mins read the war between the united states and israel against iran entered its seventh day today friday over 1 200 people have been killed in the war the majority of them in iran we bring you major updates on the war on its seventh day rising death toll over a thousand iranians have now been reported dead due to the us and israel s mis","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"76f44990db83c552","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/category/metro/","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/just-in-ukrainians-take-cover-in-metro-stations-as-russian-forces-approach-capital-city/metro/tel:+2347001777577","title":"Home - Daily Trust","snippet":"Daily Trust has the latest news, analysis, and insights on politics, business, sports, entertainment, and more in Nigeria and beyond. Follow our news coverage.","content_text":"--> Kano dep gov: Garo, Takai, Falgore tipped as impeachment plot begins Unprepared leaders are Africa’s problem – Obasanjo Top Story Terrorists abduct over 100 women, children in BornoSuspected Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists abducted more than 100 women and children in an attack on Ngoshe community in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State,…Latest podcast 2 hours ago How SMEs can leverage new tax reform for growth - Experts 5 hours ago Terrorists abduct over 100 women, children in Borno 5 hours ago Kano dep gov: Garo, Takai, Falgore tipped as impeachment plot begins 5 hours ago Unprepared leaders are Africa’s problem – Obasanjo 5 hours ago Smartphones prices to increase by 20% in Nigeria More Headlines Smartphones prices to increase by 20% in Nigeria EFCC: How Emefiele’s lawyer was arrested with $2m cash NIGERIA DAILY: Challenges Ahead For Nigeria's State Police US/Isreal war: Nigerians in Iran safe, says Envoy Podcast More Podcast NIGERIA DAILY: Challenges Ahead For Nigeria's State Police NIGERIA DAILY: Why Lassa Fever Cases And Deaths Are Rising In Nigeria NIGERIA DAILY: Can INEC’s Mock Election Rebuild Nigeria’s Electoral Confidence Come 2027? NIGERIA DAILY: What The U.S. Military Presence In Nigeria Really Means For Security NIGERIA DAILY: What You Should Know About Nigeria’s Shares and Stock Market Video More Video The Hidden Dangers of Fake Products in Nigeria What You Don’t Know About IGR: The Biggest Financial Scam Aguiyi-Ironsi: The General Who Tried to Hold Nigeria Together The Untold Story of Umaru Musa Yar’Adua Nigeria’s First Coup: The Prime Minister Who Never Returned Sponsored Post More Sponsored Post President Tinubu Is Behind My Success - Uba Sani Why Email Authentication Alone No Longer Guarantees Inbox Trust Ultimate Everest Trekking Adventure – Everest Base Camp, Three Passes & Gokyo Lake Trek: What to Know Before Looking at Electric Dirt Bikes for Sale The Complete Guide to AI Essay Writers: Ethics Benefits and Best Practices news Terrorists abduct over 100 women, children in Borno Kano dep gov: Garo, Takai, Falgore tipped as impeachment plot begins Zulum empowers 2,970 youths with N2bn starter packs Two killed in Rivers auto crash Tinubu's economic reforms yielding measurable results - minister business How SMEs can leverage new tax reform for growth - Experts Smartphones prices to increase by 20% in Nigeria Enterprise NGR eyes 3% insurance contribution to GDP After 45 years in oil & gas industry, Oyebanji bows out as 11PLC MD Power plants shut as generation drops to 3,940.53mw politics Unprepared leaders are Africa’s problem – Obasanjo PDP, LP missing as INEC releases final list for Osun guber Ex-Bayelsa governor, Dickson dumps PDP for NDC ABG explains interest in Kaduna gov’ship FG running 3 budgets, implementing none – ADC sports Revenge seeking Pillars battle city rivals Barau FC in Kano derby NBBF crisis stalled annual referees’ clinic, says Popoola CAF reschedules 2026 WAFCON to July Alcaraz unbeaten run under threat from Sinner at Indian Wells PSG prepare for Chelsea clash with Monaco rematch international US, Japan unveil $36bn oil, gas, critical minerals projects Trump demands say on Iran’s next leader as Mideast war spirals Iran assures safety of Nigerians in Tehran US/Isreal war: Nigerians in Iran safe, says Envoy Iran crisis: Stranded travellers evacuated from Middle East opinion The day the opposition cleared its throat Nigeria’s AI readiness and insights from India’s Seven Chakras Nigeria’s AI Readiness and Insights from India’s Seven Chakras Green dreams, old traps: Will Nigeria finally learn to compete? Transport: The overlooked climate frontline exclusive-columns 85 Seconds to Midnight From abnormal to post-normal: The Trumpian New World (Dis)Order The world dislikes the weak Northern governors must look in the mirror (I) Budget in breach again editorial Jesse Louis Jackson (1941 – 2016) Guns, politics and dangerous signals Mokwa flood victims cannot wait another rainy season Beyond president’s call on addressing poverty No to foreign ‘laws’ education VC counsels Nigerians on continuous learning, innovative leadership Abuja Varsity VC advises youths on ways to escape poverty ASE VC cautions youths against seeking immediate gratification FG to enroll 500,000 out-of-school children How water threatens girl-child education in Kano agriculture Experts harp on early preparation for 2026 farming season How climate-resilient seeds are transforming smallholder farmers’ livelihoods in Gombe Why egg price is rising FG moves to triple yam output ‘Without supporting farmers, Nigeria cannot feed itself’ health Cancer: 'Millions of Nigerians in IDP camps, rural areas at risk' The Politics of Three Square Meals No Woman Should Die of Cervical Cancer The Quietest Killer: Why Your Liver is Screaming When DNA Results Don’t Tell the Whole Story city-news Locals seek rehabilitation of health center in FCT community FCT: Automated gate control system launched at Garki market FCT moves against exam malpractice in schools Wike promises C of O to indigenous people of FCT Water scarcity worsens in FCT","published_at":"2018-07-19T06:37:20+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T12:10:53+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"90b63e8d558ad607104503391f1e6bac6580e396","text_fingerprint":"kano dep gov garo takai falgore tipped as impeachment plot begins unprepared leaders are africa s problem obasanjo top story terrorists abduct over 100 women children in bornosuspected boko haram iswap terrorists abducted more than 100 women and children in an attack on ngoshe community in gwoza local government area of borno state latest podcast 2 hours ago how smes can leverage new tax reform for growth experts 5 hours ago terrorists abduct over 100 women children in borno 5 hours ago kano dep gov garo takai falgore tipped as impeachment plot begins 5 hours ago unprepared leaders are africa ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"f296fffa1a2cca6c","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/category/news/headlines","title":"Headline Stories Archives","snippet":"News","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Headline Stories Changes in Nigerian Police: Frank Mba, other DIGs vacate office, PSC set to announce replacements byYakubu Mohammed March 6, 2026 Features ANALYSIS: Trump’s African health strategy falters March 6, 2026 Foreign US/Israel-Iran war (Day 7): Death toll rises as Sri Lanka rescues Iranian sailors March 6, 2026 Headline Stories Headline Stories Rift within Anglican Communion deepens as conservative Anglican bloc forms new council byFolashade Ogunrinde March 6, 2026 The group said the new structure, known as the Global Anglican Council, will guide churches aligned with its conservative position... Read moreDetails Headline Stories EXCLUSIVE: FG panel nails Uche Nnaji, confirms ex-minister forged UNN certificate byChinagorom Ugwu March 6, 2026 The findings of the federal government’s panel on Mr Nnaji align with this newspaper’s report, which exposed the then-minister’s certificate... Read moreDetails Headline Stories Tinubu announces ‘historic’ deal to end decades-long OPL 245 controversy byKabir Yusuf March 6, 2026 The presidency said the agreement paves the way for a development that could add approximately 150,000 barrels per day to... Read moreDetails Headline Stories Four police officers, others will face prosecution over Lagos traders’ killing, CP vows byEmmanuel Agbo March 6, 2026 \"This matter has not been swept under the carpet,\" the Lagos State Commissioner of Police vowed. Read moreDetails Features And Interviews How US, Chinese investment models are reshaping Nigeria’s trade, energy sector byKabir Yusuf March 6, 2026 Nigeria is currently the United States' second-largest trading partner in Africa. Bilateral trade in goods and services reached nearly $13... Read moreDetails Football World Cup Play-off: FIFA opens ticket sales, lists DR Congo, not Nigeria, among contenders byTunde Eludini March 5, 2026 The play-off tournament will feature six teams from different confederations competing for two remaining places at the 2026 World Cup Read moreDetails Headline Stories Dangote Refinery explains N100 petrol price increase amid crude price surge byAbdulkareem Mojeed March 5, 2026 The Dangote Petroleum Refinery says the recent N100 increase in its petrol ex-depot price was driven by rising global crude... Read moreDetails Headline Stories Ex-Bayelsa Governor Seriake Dickson quits PDP byAbdulqudus Ogundapo March 5, 2026 He explained that his decision to leave the party was due to the irreconcilable leadership crisis in the PDP, the... Read moreDetails Headline Stories We arrested lawyer with $2m cash allegedly belonging to Emefiele – EFCC witness byFalmata Daniel March 5, 2026 The EFCC agent told the court that the lawyer confirmed during interrogation that the suspicious $2 million cash belonged to... Read moreDetails Foreign US/Israel-Iran war: America turns to Kurdish rebels as hope of popular uprising in Iran falters byBeloved John March 5, 2026 The United States intelligence agency, the CIA, has a history of working with Kurdish groups. Read moreDetails Headline Stories N2.5bn Fraud Charges: Ex-minister Stella Oduah, co-defendant begin returning alleged looted funds byFalmata Daniel March 5, 2026 The terms of agreement between the AGF office and Ms Oduah for the return of looted funds alleged in the... Read moreDetails Headline Stories US/Israel-Iran war (Day 6): Iran postpones Khamenei’s funeral, Senate fails to limit Trump’s war powers byBeloved John March 5, 2026 Republican senators argued that voting for the legislation would have sent the wrong message to Iran and US troops. Read moreDetails Headline Stories Jigawa 2027: Ex-defence minister meets opposition leaders amidst defection rumours byAbubakar Ahmadu Maishanu March 5, 2026 Despite his public denial of plans to defect from the ruling APC to the ADC, recent public engagements of former... Read moreDetails Headline Stories Nigerian govt approves medical fellowships as PhD substitute for medical professionals byQosim Suleiman March 5, 2026 Medical professionals have long argued that medical fellowships should be equivalent to a PhD in the academic environment. Read moreDetails Headline Stories FEC approves six major road projects across Nigeria byPremium Times March 5, 2026 The Minister of Works, David Umahi, says the government plans to commission at least four road projects in each of... Read moreDetails Headline Stories Senate committee asks CBN to strengthen oversight of fintechs byAbdulqudus Ogundapo March 5, 2026 The committee advocated for legislation that would explicitly place fintech operations under the supervision of the CBN. Read moreDetails Headline Stories Tinubu directs suspension of cashless payment at airports bySani Tukur March 4, 2026 Mr Keyamo said the president directed him to \"go back to the drawing board.\" Read moreDetails Headline Stories Cocaine, synthetic drugs proliferation raises security, public health threats in West Africa – Report byKabir Yusuf March 4, 2026 The harms driven by synthetic drug markets, including overdoses, chronic and severe mental health conditions, and community fragmentation, are escalating,... Read moreDetails Headline Stories How Nigerian nightlife entrepreneurs are monetising culture – Cubana Whitelion byJayne Augoye March 4, 2026 “A premium table can cost several millions of Naira in one night, not necessarily because of the liquor itself, but... Read moreDetails Headline Stories IGP Disu inaugurates committee for implementation of state police byPremium Timesand1 others March 4, 2026 Mr Disu asked the committee to propose an operational framework for the establishment and coordination of state police structures as... Read moreDetails Headline Stories US/Israel-Iran War: Death toll in Iran rises to over 1000 byBeloved John March 4, 2026 It also reported that the US and Israel have targeted the holy city of Qom and several other cities. Read moreDetails Foreign US/Israel War: US embassy in Nigeria cancels visa appointments over concerns of protest byBeloved John March 4, 2026 The mission also advised US citizens in the country to remain in their residences throughout the day, warning that the... Read moreDetails Foreign US/Israel-Iran War (Day 5): Battle of the Waters as Strait of Hormuz comes to focus byBeloved John March 4, 2026 Satellite images have shown the impact of the US and Israel’s strikes in Iran and Iran's retaliatory strikes across the... Read moreDetails Headline Stories WHO condemns killing of paramedics in Lebanon as US/Israel-Iran war continues byMariam Ileyemi March 4, 2026 The WHO’s condemnation comes as the US/Israel-Iran war enters its fifth day, with the scale of casualties and destruction continuing... Read moreDetails Headline Stories Concerns raised as Nigeria’s revenue-generating agencies appear before lawmakers bySharon Eboesomi March 4, 2026 Lawmakers raised concerns about uncollected duties, missing CAC data, and the implementation of cashless payments at airports. Read moreDetails New Arrivals Advertisement All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":null,"fetched_at":"2026-03-06T14:56:56+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"f92e7cd4e1b1fc37d435c991c563b31b1c61b7fa","text_fingerprint":"advertisement headline stories changes in nigerian police frank mba other digs vacate office psc set to announce replacements byyakubu mohammed march 6 2026 features analysis trump s african health strategy falters march 6 2026 foreign us israel iran war day 7 death toll rises as sri lanka rescues iranian sailors march 6 2026 headline stories headline stories rift within anglican communion deepens as conservative anglican bloc forms new council byfolashade ogunrinde march 6 2026 the group said the new structure known as the global anglican council will guide churches aligned with its conservat","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"aecf1ffee3e86a67","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/category/news/more-news","title":"More News Archives","snippet":"News","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT More News Uba Sani warns about ‘latter-day activists” byPress Release March 6, 2026 More News EFCC arraigns Chinese national for deception March 6, 2026 Headline Stories Four police officers, others will face prosecution over Lagos traders’ killing, CP vows March 6, 2026 More News More News Ekiti Poll: Senate Leader, Minister lead Gov Oyebanji’s re-election campaign council byAyodele Joseph March 6, 2026 The campaign council will be inaugurated at the state secretariat on Monday. Read moreDetails More News Lawmakers push framework to coordinate Nigeria’s transition to low-carbon economy bySharon Eboesomi March 5, 2026 International experts described the transition as a critical economic opportunity for the country’s carbon-heavy sectors. Read moreDetails More News Union Dicon Salt says majority shareholder still unreachable, speaks on operational challenges byOmotoyosi Idowu March 5, 2026 The salt producer explained that it experienced a prolonged period of inactivity, further noting its efforts to return to productivity... Read moreDetails Foreign World Bank Funds: Liberia anti-graft agency clears fishery agency’s head of fraud byEmmanuel Agbo March 5, 2026 She had sued the Liberian government at the ECOWAS Court over alleged rights violations. Read moreDetails Foreign US/Israel-Iran War: Trump wants to be involved in selection of next Iranian leader byBeloved John March 5, 2026 Mr Trump also declared that Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of the assassinated Khamenei, who is considered a likely successor, was... Read moreDetails More News Nigerian troops dismantle IPOB’s bomb-making factory, hideouts byChinagorom Ugwu March 5, 2026 The army said the troops conducted the operations, which began on 3 March, in collaboration with other security operatives, including... Read moreDetails More News PDP appoints caretaker committee for Shendam, replaces Wase LGA chair byChuwang Dungs March 5, 2026 In a statement issued on Thursday, signed by Choji Felix, its state publicity secretary, the PDP said the decision was... Read moreDetails Football South Africa accuses Morocco of ‘holding CAF hostage’ over WAFCON 2026 byGbemidepo Popoola March 5, 2026 For the past six weeks, uncertainty has surrounded the venue of the 2026 edition of the continental showpiece, officially known... Read moreDetails More News Reps committee backs private sector plan for Nigeria’s first green, climate finance bank bySharon Eboesomi March 5, 2026 Promoters of the proposed Green and Climate Finance Bank say they are targeting $100m in founding capital as the House... Read moreDetails More News Tinubu renews Omotayo’s appointment as NIPSS DG byAgency Report March 5, 2026 The renewal grants Mr Omotayo, a professor, a final term of four years at the helm of NIPSS. Read moreDetails More News Wike promises C of O to indigenous people of Abuja byAgency Report March 5, 2026 Mr Wike explained that the move was to give the people a sense of belonging in the land of their... Read moreDetails Football EPL Roundup: Arsenal seven points clear as Aina helps Forest hold Man City byTunde Eludini March 5, 2026 At the Etihad Stadium, Ola Aina was in action for the entire match and delivered a solid performance for the... Read moreDetails More News Adamawa gov visits APC national secretariat, praises Tinubu’s economic reforms bySharon Eboesomi March 4, 2026 Mr Fintiri recently defected to the APC from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Read moreDetails More News Tinubu celebrates Obasanjo at 89 byPress Release March 4, 2026 President Tinubu noted the courage and sacrifices of Mr Obasanjo, who previously served the nation as military Head of State... Read moreDetails More News Tinubu swears in Disu as Nigeria’s 23rd IGP byAgency Report March 4, 2026 Mr Disu listed welfare of officers, restoration of security and internal preparation for state police as priorities. Read moreDetails More News APC chairman re-elected in Akwa Ibom byAgency Report March 4, 2026 The congress was supervised by INEC. Read moreDetails More News Ex-PDP chairman emerges new APC chairman in Enugu byAgency Report March 4, 2026 Governor Peter Mbah of Enugu State congratulated the newly inaugurated State Working Committee and State Executive Committee, describing the congress... Read moreDetails More News ‘I won’t go to gutters with him’: Ex-senator reacts to ‘insults’ from Akwa Ibom governor byEkemini Simon March 4, 2026 Governor Eno had said that he was nobody’s receptionist and that he was unavailable to pick up phone calls from... Read moreDetails More News Uma Ukpai’s family releases funeral arrangements for late evangelist bySaviour Imukudo March 4, 2026 Uma Ukpai, founder and president of the Uma Ukpai Evangelistic Association based in Uyo, died on 6 October 2025 at... Read moreDetails More News Plateau APC reelects Rufus Bature as chairperson at state congress byChuwang Dungs March 4, 2026 The congress, which attracted a large turnout of party stakeholders, was attended by Governor Caleb Mutfwang, his deputy, Josephine Piyo,... Read moreDetails More News Airport Cashless Policy: Keyamo urges Nigerians to exercise patience byMariya Shuaibu Suleiman March 4, 2026 According to the aviation minister, the first week of Nigeria’s airport cashless policy will be reviewed to enhance efficiency, boost... Read moreDetails More News Nigeria Army rescues two kidnap victims, arrest suspected gun runner in Plateau, Kaduna byManasseh Mbachii March 4, 2026 The Media Information Officer of the Joint Task Force, Chinonso Oteh, says troops, deployed at Wase, rescued the victims during... Read moreDetails More News APC elects new leaders in Kano byAgency Report March 4, 2026 The new state executive committee is headed by Haruna Doguwa, who recently resigned as Commissioner for Water Resources in Kano... Read moreDetails More News Taraba, Benue governors meet in Wukari, set up joint committee to tackle border insecurity byManasseh Mbachii March 4, 2026 “As neighbouring states facing similar threats, there is an urgent need for synergy to restore peace and safeguard lives and... Read moreDetails Football Players Roundup: Onuachu scores again as Lookman, Arokodare headline mixed fortunes byGbemidepo Popoola March 4, 2026 Across Europe, it was a night that underlined the fine margins of elite football; recovery steps taken, momentum built, and... Read moreDetails New Arrivals Advertisement All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":null,"fetched_at":"2026-03-06T14:57:01+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"9445c9c481e31227657cf7a27dfe57c9db86a48d","text_fingerprint":"advertisement more news uba sani warns about latter day activists bypress release march 6 2026 more news efcc arraigns chinese national for deception march 6 2026 headline stories four police officers others will face prosecution over lagos traders killing cp vows march 6 2026 more news more news ekiti poll senate leader minister lead gov oyebanji s re election campaign council byayodele joseph march 6 2026 the campaign council will be inaugurated at the state secretariat on monday read moredetails more news lawmakers push framework to coordinate nigeria s transition to low carbon economy bysh","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"d8e01615d293e068","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/861920-changes-in-nigerian-police-frank-mba-other-digs-vacate-office-psc-set-to-announce-replacements.html","title":"Changes in Nigerian Police: Frank Mba, other DIGs vacate office, PSC set to announce replacements","snippet":"The Police Service Commission has conducted interviews for the AIGs set to be promoted to replace the outgoing DIGs,","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT DIG Frank Mba (Wikimedia commons) Changes in Nigerian Police: Frank Mba, other DIGs vacate office, PSC set to announce replacements The Police Service Commission has conducted interviews for the AIGs set to be promoted to replace the outgoing DIGs, byYakubu Mohammed March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read Frank Mba and seven other Deputy Inspectors General (DIGs) have vacated their offices following the substantive confirmation of Tunji Disu as the 23rd Inspector-General of Police (IGP), PREMIUM TIMES can report. Although there has been no official announcement regarding their retirement, police sources told PREMIUM TIMES that the officers had already vacated their offices at the Force Headquarters in Abuja, indicating they had been asked to step aside. Steps commenced on Friday to promote seven Assistant Inspectors General (AIGs) to the rank of DIG to replace the outgoing ones. Sources at the police headquarters told this newspaper that the Police Service Commission (PSC) invited seven AIGs for promotion interviews scheduled for 6 March at the commission’s corporate headquarters in Jabi, Abuja. The interviews were heldon Friday morning. The officers invited are Zacharia Achinyan, Zango Baba, Isyaku Mohammed, Margaret Ochalla, Mohammed Suleiman, Kenechukwu Onwuemelie and Umar Nadada. Another source with direct knowledge of the process said eight AIGs were initially expected to be considered for promotion. However, one of them, Adegoke Fayoade, who had been recommended for elevation to DIG, had not yet been decorated with the new rank before the latest reorganisation in the police. Mr Fayoade will not undergo any new interview but will only be decorated with his new rank of DIG, our sources said. The Nigeria Police Force is structured into eight key departments, each headed by a DIG and operating under the command of the IGP. Data available on the police website showed that these departments are overseen by eight DIGs. The Department of Operations was headed by Bzigu Kwazhi, while Sadiq Abubakar led the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID). The Force Intelligence Department was under the supervision of Mohammed Gumel, and the Department of Logistics and Supply was headed by Adebola Hamzat. Others were Mr Mba, who led the Department of Training and Development; Adebowale Williams (Information and Communication Technology); Basil Idegwu (Research and Planning) and Dankwara Mohammed (Finance and Administration). All the incumbent DIGs will retire and be replaced with the new ones to be announced soon following the recent leadership change in the police hierarchy. Why the DIGs stepped aside Speculation about the possible retirement of the DIGs began shortly after Mr Disu’s appointment and confirmation as IGP. Before his appointment, Mr Disu held the rank of AIG and was junior in rank to the serving DIGs, including Mr Mba. PREMIUM TIMES understands that no Nigerian law compels senior officers to retire simply because a junior officer has been appointed as IGP. A few years ago, a DIG who was forcefully retired when his junior was promoted to IGP also challenged his retirement in court and won. However, the tradition has been that DIGs retire when their junior is promoted IGP ahead of them, a tradition that is now set to continue with Mr Disu’s appointment. READ ALSO: Four police officers, others will face prosecution over Lagos trader’s killing, CP vows Under the Police Act 2020, police officers are required to retire upon reaching the age of 60 or after completing 35 years in service, whichever comes first. However, the law was amended in 2024 to allow an IGP to complete a single four-year term regardless of age or years of service. An IGP can only be removed from office by the president or if they resign. PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported that President Bola Tinubu appointed Mr Disu as IGP at the age of 59, just 48 days before his scheduled retirement. The PSC is expected to announce the newly promoted DIGs later today or by Monday. Efforts to get an official reaction from the agency on Friday morning were unsuccessful. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Kaduna to build 102 new schools, renovate 170 others – Uba Sani Next Post Uba Sani warns about ‘latter-day activists” Yakubu Mohammed All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T13:44:08+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T14:57:11+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"abd27059be2ddecca605a5fa8625c989b82a34c7","text_fingerprint":"advertisement dig frank mba wikimedia commons changes in nigerian police frank mba other digs vacate office psc set to announce replacements the police service commission has conducted interviews for the aigs set to be promoted to replace the outgoing digs byyakubu mohammed march 6 2026 reading time 2 mins read frank mba and seven other deputy inspectors general digs have vacated their offices following the substantive confirmation of tunji disu as the 23rd inspector general of police igp premium times can report although there has been no official announcement regarding their retirement polic","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"9c5f25c50ec3dcdb","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/agitation-for-creation-of-more-ijaw-states-must-continue-diri/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri","snippet":"Bayelsa Governor Douye Diri urges the Ijaw nation to sustain its agitation for the creation of more Ijaw states, emphasizing the ongoing struggle for equit","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri March 6, 2026 6:13 pm Photo of the governor of Bayelsa State, Senator Duoye Diri. Photo: State House Linus Effiong Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri, has urged the Ijaw ethnic nationality to sustain its agitation for the creation of additional states beyond Bayelsa, saying the struggle for constitutional restructuring must continue. Diri spoke on Friday during the 2026 national convention of the Ijaw National Congress held at the Ijaw House, Yenagoa. He said the Ijaw nation should not abandon its long-standing demand for the creation of two more states, in addition to the one already achieved. He explained that the ethnic group had originally pushed for three states, including Oil Rivers, Bayelsa and Toru-Ibe, adding that the quest was still ongoing. “We have tried. Today, we have one state (Bayelsa). The INC, under the leadership of Chief Joshua Fumudoh, asked for three, which are Oil Rivers, Bayelsa and Toru-Ibe states. This means we have two additional states that must be pursued by the Ijaw nation and the INC. So, it is not yet uhuru. “This is a struggle we must continue and if we cannot achieve it in our time, we will hand it over to our children. Our land and waters have nourished this nation and fuelled its economic activities and yet for too long we have borne the unfortunate environmental damage and social disadvantage. “Economic inequities, environmental degradation and infrastructural neglect remain our pressing challenges that require our local and national resolve to redress. The challenges we face are formidable but I have no doubt that our sons and daughters possess the resilience and indomitable spirit to overcome them,” he said. The governor said he had no preferred candidate among the five contestants vying for the presidency of the Ijaw National Congress Presidency, urging delegates to make choices that prioritise collective ethnic interest. Governor Diri also restated his support for true and fiscal federalism, describing Nigeria’s current structure as “unitary federalism”. He argued that states, including Bayelsa, would achieve faster development if they controlled 100 per cent of their resources and paid tax to the federal government. Bayelsa APC downplays Dickson threat as ex-gov joins NDC BREAKING: Ex-Bayelsa gov Dickson dumps PDP for NDC 2027: Dickson’s move to quit PDP sparks debate He advised contestants in Saturday’s election to prioritise the interests of the ethnic nationality over personal ambitions. The governor commended the outgoing INC President, Benjamin Okaba, and his executive council for their leadership, particularly their partnership with government toward securing the admission of the Ijaw nation into the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organisation. He urged the incoming leadership to continue efforts to revive Ijaw cultural values and language while pursuing the aspirations of the founding fathers. In his address, Okaba called for strategic global engagement in the Ijaw struggle, saying the ethnic nationality remained a major contributor to Nigeria’s oil-based economy despite years of neglect. He advocated a shift from protest-driven advocacy to stronger international engagement. “The gathering is a milestone for leadership renewal and a re-assessment of the organisation’s direction,” he said. Okaba also noted that despite its economic contributions, the Ijaw nation continues to face environmental degradation and infrastructural neglect. He announced new initiatives, including a Territorial Mapping Project aimed at digitally documenting Ijaw ancestral lands to support environmental monitoring and resource negotiations. To strengthen unity, he said the congress had registered 15 affiliate groups to amplify the Ijaw voice on national and international platforms. Dignitaries at the event included former Bayelsa Deputy Governor Peremobowei Ebebi, Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly Abraham Ingobere, and the state Head of Service Ebiye Sawyer, among other government officials and traditional rulers. Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 12 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 18 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 23 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 39 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 50 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T17:13:25+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:33:58+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"fa75c9afb38810a8f8699b0ae71b44643d65d50b","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 agitation for creation of more ijaw states must continue diri march 6 2026 6 13 pm photo of the governor of bayelsa state senator duoye diri photo state house linus effiong kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready the governor of bayelsa state douye diri has urged the ijaw ethnic nationality to sustain its agitation for the creation of additional states beyond bayelsa saying the struggle for constitutional restructuring must continue diri spoke on friday during the 2026 national convention of the ijaw national congress held at the i","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"3bb1419862edc29f","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/nddcs-projects-boost-ndelta-security-air-chief/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief","snippet":"The Chief of Air Staff commends the NDDC's projects in the Niger Delta, highlighting how solar lights and facilities have enhanced regional security and sa","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 NDDC’s projects boost N’Delta security — Air chief March 6, 2026 6:06 pm Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sunday Aneke. Photo: State House By Dennis Naku Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sunday Kelvin Aneke, has lauded the current Board and Management of the Niger Delta Development Commission for its support to the Nigerian Air Force and other security agencies operating in the region. Air Marshal Aneke, who gave the commendation during a courtesy visit at the NDDC headquarters in Port Harcourt, highlighted some of the development projects the commission had executed to assist the security agencies. This was contained in a statement issued in Port Harcourt on Friday by the NDDC Director of Corporate Affairs, Seledi Thompson-Wakama, and made available to newsmen. He said: “Let me seize this opportunity to commend the NDDC for its unflinching support to us. “We can see the good work you are putting in, such as the provision and installation of solar lights, the provision of 713 solar inverters, which have helped enhance safety and operational efficiency in the region, and the donation of a multi-purpose facility to the Nigerian Air Force at Kolo-Otuoke, Bayelsa State. “In that facility, we now have one of the Administrative and Management Schools, the physical education, skills acquisition centre and a host of other centres which were deliberately drafted from Kaduna State as a mark of appreciation to the commission’s efforts.” Air Marshal Aneke observed that the objectives of the NDDC, anchored on providing socio-economic development for the Niger Delta region, were in tandem with the strategic duties of the Nigerian Air Force of providing a secure environment for national growth and development, noting that the learning centre would provide opportunities for Nigerians, foreigners and interested members of staff of the Commission. He appealed to the NDDC board to consider rehabilitating and equipping the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) centres with reliable modern systems to serve as a training hub. Federal High Court announces Easter vacation Ekiti taps alumni for school infrastructure upgrades Why I'm vying for Oyo assembly seat — Accord Party aspirant The Chief of Air Staff, who said that the Nigerian Air Force is committed to a long-lasting partnership capable of promoting peace and stability, sought NDDC’s intervention to provide accommodation for its staff serving in Yenagoa, Port Harcourt, Benin, Asaba and Warri. Responding, the NDDC Managing Director, Dr Samuel Ogbuku, said that, as an interventionist agency, the Commission was always prepared to partner with both private and public organs in areas of development, especially in security. He remarked, “Terrorism is like a virus, and if not curtailed, will spread to other parts of the country. But I want to commend you because, since you assumed office, you have risen to the challenges posed by insecurity. “So, what we do here in the Niger Delta is to support you, because there can be no development without peace, and we need this collaboration. It is a collective task between us and the security agencies, and we are ready to support you because the President wants peace in this part of the country. “All we expect is for you to maximise the benefits, the same way we have taken development to the nooks and crannies when we started the ‘Operation light up the Niger Delta’, where almost every community has been lit up, which has drastically reduced militancy and criminality and helped in the area of commerce.” Ogbuku commended the Nigerian Air Force for maintaining the facilities donated to it over the years, and appreciated the security agency for extending its gesture of allowing staff of the Commission to participate in the new School of Administration and Management relocated from Kaduna State to the region, as a way of enhancing staff training. He assured that the partnership between the Commission and the Nigerian Air Force would stand the test of time. Dennis Naku Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 18 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 24 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 29 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 44 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 56 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T17:06:58+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:33:59+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"a8c9c3e6dbe9dbf0f309e0a2a0e716c223e578d3","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 nddc s projects boost n delta security air chief march 6 2026 6 06 pm chief of the air staff air marshal sunday aneke photo state house by dennis naku kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready the chief of air staff air marshal sunday kelvin aneke has lauded the current board and management of the niger delta development commission for its support to the nigerian air force and other security agencies operating in the region air marshal aneke who gave the commendation during a courtesy visit at the nddc headquarters in port harcourt h","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"7be3edc186ba9a84","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/middle-east-war-islamic-movement-rejects-israeli-envoys-terrorism-claims/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims","snippet":"Nigeria's Islamic Movement rejects claims by Israel's envoy linking it to terrorism, calling the allegations false and an attempt to demonize them.","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy’s terrorism claims March 6, 2026 6:02 pm Israeli ambassador to Nigeria, Michael Freeman By Godwin Isenyo Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The Media Forum of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria has rejected allegations by the Israeli Ambassador to Nigeria, Michael Freeman, accusing the movement and Iran of sponsoring terrorism and instability in Nigeria and the West African region. The group described the claims as false, provocative, and capable of creating tension among Muslims in the country, insisting they were aimed at demonising the movement and silencing voices supporting oppressed people globally. In a press statement issued on Friday and signed by its President, Ammar Muhammad, the forum said it “strongly condemns and rejects” the remarks credited to the envoy. “The Media Forum of the Islamic Movement strongly condemns and rejects the recent allegations made by the Israeli Ambassador to Nigeria, Michael Freeman, in which he attempted to associate Iran and the Islamic Movement with terrorism and instability in the country and the West African region,” the statement read. The group argued that it was inappropriate for Israel’s representative to accuse others of terrorism while his country faces global criticism over its military actions in Gaza. “It is both inappropriate and unacceptable for the representative of a state widely found guilty of committing genocide and grave violations of international laws to lecture others about terrorism or security,” the statement added. The forum alleged that Israel’s actions in Gaza have drawn widespread condemnation from international organisations and human rights groups, claiming that tens of thousands of civilians have been killed in the conflict. The statement also referenced the Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, noting that he has been declared wanted by the International Criminal Court over alleged war crimes. “As a result, he reportedly avoids travelling to several countries, including many in Europe, for fear of arrest, as many nations have indicated their readiness to enforce the ICC’s order,” the forum stated. According to the group, it was therefore ironic for Israel’s representative to accuse others of supporting terrorism. They also rejected claims linking the movement to violent activities in Nigeria. “The attempt by the ambassador to associate the Islamic Movement with terrorism is not only a blatant falsehood but also a dangerous and failed attempt to incite tension and chaos among Muslims in Nigeria,” the group said. The forum maintained that the Islamic Movement is not a conventional organisation but a movement driven by an ideology advocating justice and resistance against oppression. It further stated that in more than five decades of Islamic activism in Nigeria, no court of law has convicted the movement of terrorism or violent activity. Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Sokoto eyes 1.2 million children in four-day polio vaccination drive Nigeria congratulates Ghana on 69th Independence Anniversary “For more than five decades of Islamic activism in Nigeria, no court of law has ever convicted the Islamic Movement of terrorism or violent activity. At no point in our history have the adherents of the movement attacked any individual or organisation in the name of the movement,” the statement said. The forum added that the allegations existed only in the imagination of individuals seeking to portray Muslims negatively. “These baseless claims exist only in the imagination of those seeking to demonise Muslims and silence legitimate voices of solidarity with oppressed people,” the statement added. It also insisted that members of the movement, like other Nigerians, have the constitutional right to express solidarity with oppressed people anywhere in the world. “Standing with the oppressed has always been part of the movement’s history and identity,” the forum stated. The group said its support for Palestinians and other oppressed communities is based on humanitarian concerns and universal principles of justice. “Our solidarity with the Palestinian people and other oppressed communities around the world is rooted in moral conviction, humanitarian concern and the universal principles of justice,” the statement added. The forum therefore called on Nigerians to disregard the allegations and remain vigilant against attempts to create division among citizens. “We call on the Nigerian public to disregard these unfounded allegations and remain vigilant against attempts to sow division, misinformation and hostility among the people,” the statement said. Meanwhile, security was tightened across parts of Kaduna on Friday following rumours of a planned demonstration by Muslim faithful after Juma’at prayers. Our correspondent who monitored activities in several mosques observed a heavy security presence as worshippers gathered for the weekly congregational prayers. Within the Kaduna metropolis, heavily armed police officers were stationed at strategic locations, including Station Roundabout, Stadium Roundabout, NEPA Roundabout, and the Singer area of the city. Commercial activities continued at Mahmud Gumi Central Market and other major business districts, as residents went about their daily routines. However, there were fewer commercial vehicles on the roads, with many transport operators reportedly staying away due to fears of possible unrest. Godwin Isenyo Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 12 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 19 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 23 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 39 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 50 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T17:02:21+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:02+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"85914f442b26c142bc13fffdf5cce341d454953b","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 middle east war islamic movement rejects israeli envoy s terrorism claims march 6 2026 6 02 pm israeli ambassador to nigeria michael freeman by godwin isenyo kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready the media forum of the islamic movement in nigeria has rejected allegations by the israeli ambassador to nigeria michael freeman accusing the movement and iran of sponsoring terrorism and instability in nigeria and the west african region the group described the claims as false provocative and capable of creating tension among muslims in","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"ff005c061443e635","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/cubas-government-will-fall-pretty-soon-trump/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump","snippet":"President Trump discusses his Cuba policy, predicting the government will 'fall pretty soon' amid a US energy blockade and a deepening economic crisis.","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 Cuba’s government will ‘fall pretty soon’ – Trump March 6, 2026 5:46 pm US President Donald Trump speaks during a Working Breakfast with Governors at the White House in Washington, DC on February 20, 2026. (Photo by Mandel NGAN / AFP) Agency Report Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... President Donald Trump said Friday that “Cuba is gonna fall pretty soon” in a renewed threat to the communist-ruled island already facing a US energy blockade. “They want to make a deal so badly,” Trump told CNN in an interview a day after suggesting that he would turn to an unspecified project for Cuba after the war against Iran. “We’ve got plenty of time, but Cuba’s ready — after 50 years,” Trump said, explaining that Secretary of State Marco Rubio would be his point man on Cuba. Both Trump and Rubio — the son of Cuban immigrants — have made no secret of their desire to bring about regime change in Havana. Washington has imposed an energy blockade on the Caribbean nation that has seen its fuel stocks plunge, following the US capture of President Nicolas Maduro of Venezuela — a key oil supplier to Cuba. FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries US releases new Epstein files containing claims against Trump Trump hosts Messi, Inter Miami after 2025 MLS Cup triumph No oil has been imported to Cuba since January 9, forcing airlines to curtail flights to the island and deepening a long-running economic crisis. Havana accuses Trump of seeking to strangle Cuba’s economy. The island, under a US trade embargo since 1962, has for years been mired in a severe economic crisis marked by extended power cuts and shortages of fuel, medicine and food. AFP Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 17 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 24 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 28 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 44 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 55 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:46:44+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:03+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"08173b4ec3f5c89aea399d3a86c916d06e3ca93d","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 cuba s government will fall pretty soon trump march 6 2026 5 46 pm us president donald trump speaks during a working breakfast with governors at the white house in washington dc on february 20 2026 photo by mandel ngan afp agency report kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready president donald trump said friday that cuba is gonna fall pretty soon in a renewed threat to the communist ruled island already facing a us energy blockade they want to make a deal so badly trump told cnn in an interview a day after suggesting that he would t","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"5e6bc147172fded4","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/tinubu-sets-up-committee-for-power-grid-management/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management","snippet":"President Tinubu has launched a committee for power grid management to establish GAMCO, a new company aimed at resolving Nigeria's persistent electricity i","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management March 6, 2026 5:35 pm By Tosin Oyediran Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... President Bola Tinubu has inaugurated an 11-member committee to drive the establishment of the Grid Asset Management Company Limited (GAMCO), a new initiative aimed at addressing Nigeria’s persistent power sector challenges. The committee was constituted following the approval of the company’s establishment by the Federal Executive Council – Nigeria, which endorsed the proposal to create GAMCO as part of efforts to tackle stranded power generation, transmission bottlenecks, and grid management inefficiencies. Earlier, the Federal Executive Council had approved the establishment of a Grid Asset Management Company to address Nigeria’s persistent power transmission challenges. Power Grid According to the Femi Gbajabiamila, who inaugurated the committee on behalf of the President, the initiative represents a major reform step in the country’s electricity sector. The Special Adviser to the President (Information and Strategy), Bayo Onanuga in a statement on Friday disclosed this. “The proposed establishment of GAMCO is one of the revolutionary steps taken by Mr President and this administration in the all-important power sector. We are here for the inauguration of the Committee on Grid Asset Management Company (GAMCO), which is basically to optimise and revolutionise power generation, and in particular, the grid and transmission sector,” he said. He urged members of the committee to remain aligned with the President’s vision and strictly adhere to their mandate. The committee is expected to conduct a comprehensive review of existing laws, regulations, policies, and institutional frameworks governing the electricity value chain, including generation, transmission, distribution, and market operations. It will also examine the implications of the Electricity Reform Laws (2025) on asset ownership, management structures, and regulatory oversight, while identifying areas of conflict, overlap, or inconsistency between the proposed GAMCO framework and existing legal instruments. Key assets under review include facilities owned by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company and the National Integrated Power Project, particularly the Omotosho, Olorunsogo, and Ihovbor power plants, which are planned for the pilot phase of the project. The committee will also evaluate the relationship between the proposed company and the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, including the fiscal, financial, and market implications of the initiative, such as subsidy exposure, market liquidity, and revenue structures. Further, it will determine whether the establishment of GAMCO will require amendments to primary legislation, subsidy regulations, or executive directives. Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Sokoto eyes 1.2 million children in four-day polio vaccination drive The committee is chaired by the President’s Chief of Staff and includes the Lateef Fagbemi, Ministers of Power, Works, and Finance, as well as the Ministers of Communication and Digital Economy, Science, Technology and Innovation, Aviation and Aerospace Development, and the Minister of State for Petroleum. Other members include the Chairman of the Nigeria Revenue Service, energy expert Yemi Oke, and the Permanent Secretary of the Cabinet Affairs Office, John Chidiebere Ezeamama, who serves as secretary. The proposed Grid Asset Management Company Limited will operate as a fully government-owned commercial venture, with shares held through the Ministry of Finance Incorporated. The initiative is designed to recover and optimise stranded electricity generation capacity using the Benin–Lagos transmission corridor as a pilot phase. “The company will modernise transmission evacuation, starting from the most critical axis within Nigeria’s power system. The Benin-Lagos transmission corridor evacuates bulk power supply to Ogun and Lagos states, Nigeria’s largest industrial and commercial centres,” the statement said. The pilot phase will focus on optimising output from the Omotosho (513MW), Olorunsogo (754MW), and Ihovbor (508MW) plants. “GAMCO projects to recover at least 1,600 MW within 18-24 months, alongside the development of a new high-capacity 330V+ double-circuit transmission line along the same corridor.” The statement added that the success of the pilot phase would allow the model to be expanded to other power plants and transmission corridors to support long-term grid stabilisation. According to the government, substantial investments in NIPP generation assets have remained under-optimised due to operational inefficiencies and transmission evacuation constraints, leading to stranded capacity. The new company will seek to unlock stranded power from the selected plants and develop a parallel high-capacity transmission corridor along the Benin–Lagos axis. As proposed, the Niger Delta Power Holding Company will grant GAMCO concession and lease arrangements for the three plants, while the Transmission Company of Nigeria will allow the development, financing, and operation of a 330KV+ double-circuit transmission line along the corridor. The government said the project is expected to improve industrial productivity, protect jobs, enhance investor confidence, and boost household welfare in line with the administration’s economic agenda. Tosin Oyediran Tosin, with over six years' experience, conducts incisive interviews, pens engaging features, subedits and delivers impactful stories for the digital sphere. Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 19 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 26 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 30 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 46 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 57 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:35:14+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:04+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"85c3e5a4775a125769928a224f14ab2206422298","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 tinubu sets up committee for power grid management march 6 2026 5 35 pm by tosin oyediran kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready president bola tinubu has inaugurated an 11 member committee to drive the establishment of the grid asset management company limited gamco a new initiative aimed at addressing nigeria s persistent power sector challenges the committee was constituted following the approval of the company s establishment by the federal executive council nigeria which endorsed the proposal to create gamco as part of effort","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"9e8c5ef6d8a721e1","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/ogun-2027-why-i-dont-need-my-fathers-support-iyabo-obasanjo/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"Ogun 2027: Why I don't need my father's support — Iyabo Obasanjo","snippet":"Iyabo Obasanjo discusses her Ogun 2027 governorship bid, stating she doesn't need her father's backing, only his vote, and outlines her campaign funding.","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 Ogun 2027: Why I don’t need my father’s support — Iyabo Obasanjo March 6, 2026 5:24 pm File: Iyabo Obasanjo By Fawzi Kehinde Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Former Senator, Iyabo Obasanjo-Bello, has said she does not need the backing of her father, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, as she pursues the Ogun State governorship under the All Progressives Congress ahead of the 2027 general election. She stated this on Channels Television’s Morning Brief on Friday. “I don’t need his support. I’m almost 60. I mean I’m 59. I think that at this age, my friends that still have both parents alive are very few, very few. “So, I consider myself lucky at this age to have both my mother and my father alive. And I don’t think that at this age, I should be consulting them for everything — my career moves,” she said. She added that her parents would vote for her regardless. “My father, I know, and my mother will vote for me. That’s all I can ask of them. I don’t even need to ask of them. Even if I didn’t ask, they will vote for me. So my journey in APC is a personal journey for me,” she added. On the question of consistency, given that she had been absent from active politics since losing her Senate seat, Obasanjo-Bello said she had not intended to seek re-election in the first place, and had postponed her Harvard fellowship by a year due to pressure from supporters. “I wasn’t going to run for that election. When I lost, I saw it as a blessing. I felt the only way I could not get that pressure and continue to do things that I wasn’t comfortable with doing was to just cut myself away so that they will have to find some other politician to follow or do something else,” she said. She said her initial entry into politics was driven by excitement at grassroots campaigning, an experience she had never encountered growing up during the military era. Why I dumped PDP for APC — Iyabo Obasanjo El-Rufai family declares ex-gov's detention unlawful, demands immediate release Alaafin hails Obasanjo at 89 She later served as Commissioner for Health in Ogun State and as a senator representing her senatorial district, positions she described as the foundation of her current governorship bid. “Everywhere I go in the state now, somebody comes up to me and says, ‘You did this for me’ — something as simple as, you were when you were commissioner, I was hired, or you hired me. I came to talk to you about something and for a job. You saw my CV. I have a lot of goodwill,” she said. On funding, she disclosed that decades of work in the United States had yielded retirement savings invested in the American stock market, which she said would form part of her campaign war chest. “If you look at the US stock market, if you put money into it 30 years ago, it’s more than — I can say controversially—times 10 or something. “So that multiplier is part of the system. By the time you stay for a long time working and you get closer to retirement, you have a nice nest egg. So that is part of my own funding,” she said, adding that she also expected contributions from individuals whose fortunes she had helped advance over the years. Asked whether channelling her savings into a campaign she could lose was a risk, she said, “Then I still have some savings. I still have 15 years of work life left in me and I’ll go back to work.” On the party primary, she said no candidate in Ogun State had been given a guaranteed APC ticket, including herself, but expressed confidence in her chances. “I feel I’m a formidable person to beat because of my track record. I just think I’m a better candidate and more formidable than them. And I’m going to win,” she said. She noted that at least one other woman had declared for the Ogun governorship, and welcomed the moment as auspicious for women in Nigerian politics, pointing to the pending gender reserved seat bill before the National Assembly as a positive signal. Fawzi Kehinde Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 17 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 23 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 28 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 43 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 55 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:24:51+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:06+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"b2fe5b4da0a5f044e4aae59ee0c9e7172ea8c8ff","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 ogun 2027 why i don t need my father s support iyabo obasanjo march 6 2026 5 24 pm file iyabo obasanjo by fawzi kehinde kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready former senator iyabo obasanjo bello has said she does not need the backing of her father former president olusegun obasanjo as she pursues the ogun state governorship under the all progressives congress ahead of the 2027 general election she stated this on channels television s morning brief on friday i don t need his support i m almost 60 i mean i m 59 i think that at this ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"07485303e1430b0d","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/federal-high-court-announces-easter-vacation/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"Federal High Court announces Easter vacation","snippet":"The Federal High Court of Nigeria announces its 2026 Easter vacation from April 7 to April 13. Urgent matters will be heard in key divisions.","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 Federal High Court announces Easter vacation March 6, 2026 5:24 pm File Photo: Justice John Tsoho By Nathaniel Shaibu Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The Federal High Court of Nigeria has announced that it will proceed on its 2026 Easter vacation from April 7 to April 13, 2026. In a statement issued on Friday and signed by the Director of Information of the court, Dr Catherine Christopher, the court said the decision was “pursuant to the provisions of Order 46, Rule 4(c) of the Federal High Court (Civil Procedure) Rules 2019 (as amended).” According to the circular, the Chief Judge of the court, John Terhemba Tsoho, approved the vacation period, adding that normal sittings would resume on April 14 across all judicial divisions. The court, however, stated that the core judicial divisions in Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt and Enugu would remain open during the vacation to attend to matters of extreme urgency. The statement noted that only cases relating to the enforcement of fundamental rights, arrest or release of vessels, and issues concerning dire national interest would be entertained during the period. “The court shall resume normal sittings on Tuesday, April 14, 2026, in all judicial divisions. “During the vacation period, the Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt and Enugu core judicial divisions shall remain open to the public strictly for matters of extreme urgency. Abba Kyari’s drug trial continues, says NDLEA NRM backs INEC, warns against party hijack UPDATED: Court acquits Abba Kyari of asset non-declaration charge “It should be noted that only matters relating to the enforcement of fundamental rights; arrest or release of vessels; and matters concerning dire national interest shall be entertained by the vacation judges during the period,” the statement read. It added that the following judges had been designated to serve as vacation judges in the respective divisions. In the Abuja Judicial Division, the judges are Emeka Nwite and Musa S. Liman, while the Lagos Judicial Division will have Akintayo Aluko and Ogazi F. Nkemakonam. For the Port Harcourt Judicial Division, the designated judges are Phoebe M. Ayua and Adamu T. Mohammed, while the Enugu Judicial Division will be handled by Mabel T. Segun-Bello. The circular further advised the vacation judges and heads of divisions to promptly refer any matter requiring urgent attention to the Chief Judge for necessary directives. It also stated that the dates announced in the circular supersede any earlier dates that might have been circulated or obtained from other sources. Nathaniel Shaibu Nathaniel has for the past year covered civil societies, religion, metro and recently the women's ministry as correspondent with Punch Newspapers Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 14 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 21 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 25 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 41 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 52 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:24:43+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:08+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"ed77481fcd7af9c2c11247ab3a06e29cf4e3427e","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 federal high court announces easter vacation march 6 2026 5 24 pm file photo justice john tsoho by nathaniel shaibu kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready the federal high court of nigeria has announced that it will proceed on its 2026 easter vacation from april 7 to april 13 2026 in a statement issued on friday and signed by the director of information of the court dr catherine christopher the court said the decision was pursuant to the provisions of order 46 rule 4 c of the federal high court civil procedure rules 2019 as amende","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"b119eb8a8edc1b7f","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/nscdc-arrests-two-suspected-bandits-recovers-firearm-in-kwara/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"NSCDC arrests two suspected bandits, recovers firearm in Kwara","snippet":"The NSCDC has arrested two suspected bandits in Kwara State's Patigi LGA. A pistol and drugs were recovered from the suspects after an operation.","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 NSCDC arrests two suspected bandits, recovers firearm in Kwara March 6, 2026 5:23 pm The arrested suspects By Tunde Oyekola Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has arrested two suspected bandits during an intelligence-driven operation in Saminaka community, Patigi Local Government Area of Kwara State. The suspects, Abubakar Jubril, 28, and Mohammed Abubakar, 26, were apprehended on Tuesday, March 3, 2026, following sustained surveillance by operatives of the command. According to the command, the suspects “were among three suspicious individuals sighted in a volatile area. While two were arrested, the third suspect escaped and is currently at large.” The command said, “Efforts were ongoing to ensure the prompt arrest of the fleeing suspect. “Items recovered from the suspects include a pistol (Serial No. 7886, made in the USA), a mobile phone, drugs suspected to be tramadol, and cigarettes.” Mexico to deploy 100,000 security personnel for World Cup Police raid kidnappers’ hideout in Edo, arrest 65 Police begin constable recruitment screening in Kebbi March 9 While parading the suspects on Friday, March 6, 2026, the Kwara State Commandant of the corps, Bala Bodinga, reaffirmed the command’s commitment to sustaining operations aimed at tackling criminal activities and safeguarding lives and property across the state. Bodinga warned individuals involved in criminal activities to desist or face the full weight of the law, stressing that the command would leave no stone unturned to apprehend offenders and ensure the security of residents throughout the state. He also urged members of the public to remain vigilant and provide credible information that would aid security agencies in combating crime and maintaining peace across the state. The Public Relations Officer of the command, ASC Ayoola Michael, said the suspects would be charged in court upon completion of investigations or transferred to the appropriate security agency for further investigation. Tunde Oyekola Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 15 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 21 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 26 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 41 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 53 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:23:15+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:14+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"592cce9f25b1f2ccfbe772c99d25a70d179f1018","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 nscdc arrests two suspected bandits recovers firearm in kwara march 6 2026 5 23 pm the arrested suspects by tunde oyekola kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready the nigeria security and civil defence corps has arrested two suspected bandits during an intelligence driven operation in saminaka community patigi local government area of kwara state the suspects abubakar jubril 28 and mohammed abubakar 26 were apprehended on tuesday march 3 2026 following sustained surveillance by operatives of the command according to the command the ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"5ab84d2f5ad4e9f1","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/blockdag-hits-cmc-top-100-in-under-24-hours-heres-why-thats-never-happened-before/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"BlockDAG Hits CMC Top 100 in Under 24 Hours - Here's Why That's Never Happened Before","snippet":"BlockDAG launched on CoinStore, BitMart, and LBank with CMC top 100 at listing, volumes beating Kaspa and Solana combined, and Tier 1 US exchange listings still ahead.","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 BlockDAG Hits CMC Top 100 in Under 24 Hours – Here’s Why That’s Never Happened Before March 6, 2026 5:19 pm Branded Content Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... March 2026 has already produced one of the most talked-about crypto launches in recent memory. BlockDAG went live on CoinStore, BitMart, and LBank, and from the first hour of trading, the numbers were extraordinary. BDAG entered CoinMarketCap’s top 100 at the exact moment of listing at 10 AM PST on launch day. That has not happened with any other project at this scale. Opening trading volumes came in bigger than Kaspa and Solana’s early trading days combined. Staking participation from day one was already running ahead of where Solana was at the equivalent stage. The biggest catalysts, including Tier 1 US exchange listings, are still ahead. The data behind this launch is specific, verifiable, and unlike anything else in the current market cycle. The CMC Top 100 Entry That Changed the Conversation Entering CoinMarketCap’s top 100 at the moment of listing is not something that happens by accident. It requires a combination of presale depth, staking volume, exchange partnerships, and community size that very few projects have ever pulled together simultaneously. BlockDAG did all of it at once. The listing happened at 10 AM PST on launch day, and the top 100 entry was confirmed in real time as live trading began on CoinStore, BitMart, and LBank. This is not a lagging metric, it is a live snapshot of exactly where BDAG stood in the global market hierarchy the moment trading opened. For context, most projects spend months or years working toward top 100 status after listing. BlockDAG started there on day one. That changes how institutional investors and exchange partners evaluate the asset from the very beginning. It also sets a very different baseline for every price discussion that follows from here. Volume Numbers That Beat Kaspa and Solana’s Early Days The volume comparison to Kaspa and Solana is not a casual claim. Both of those assets are among the strongest return stories in crypto history. Early Kaspa and early Solana generated trading volumes that, at the time, were considered exceptional for new projects. BlockDAG’s opening sessions came in bigger than both of them combined. Here is what that looks like in context: Kaspa’s early trading was seen as a breakout moment for proof-of-work altcoins Solana’s early exchange volumes were a leading signal for what eventually became a top 5 global asset BDAG’s opening volumes beat both of those benchmarks simultaneously, not just one The staking data tells a similar story. Day-one staking participation was already ahead of where Solana was at launch, removing supply from circulation and applying upward price pressure from the supply side immediately, not weeks or months later. Where to Buy BDAG Right Now BlockDAG is currently live and trading on three exchanges: CoinStore, BitMart, and LBank. All three are active and accessible globally, with live order books and real-time price data running across each platform. Beyond the exchange listings, BlockDAG’s own website offers a direct swap with a 10% discount on BDAG, making it the most cost-efficient route for buyers who want to accumulate before Tier 1 US exchange listings go live. That discount is meaningful. On a position of any real size, 10% off the current price compounds quickly when analyst targets are set at $0.20, $0.40, and $0.50 sequentially. CoinStore, BitMart, and LBank represent the first stage of the exchange rollout. Tier 1 US listings are the second stage, and they have not happened yet. That gap between the current exchange footprint and the full Tier 1 US rollout is exactly where early buyers are currently positioned right now. What Comes Next: Tier 1 US Listings and the $0.20 Target The road map from here is specific and trackable. Analysts have set $0.20 as the near-term price target, with $0.40 and $0.50 as the next two levels. A top 50 global market cap above $1.2 billion is the institutional destination that models are working toward. The mechanism that gets BDAG from current levels toward those targets is Tier 1 US exchange listings. Every major crypto that secured a Tier 1 US listing experienced a step-change in daily volume, buyer access, and price discovery. BlockDAG’s current listing footprint covers CoinStore, BitMart, and LBank. The next phase brings in the largest retail and institutional buyer pools in the world. The 100x return scenario that analyst models are already producing is built around exactly this full exchange sequencing. The launch is the proof of concept. Tier 1 US listings are the accelerant that turns it into a sustained price event. BlockDAG Launches on BitMart, Pionex USA, and LBank - The Most Successful Launch Ever in Crypto Hyperliquid Dips, Hedera Tests Support But BlockDAG's $0.0001 Entry With 500x Potential Won't Last Past March 4 Smart Buyers Chase 500x Potential in the Final 6 days of BlockDAG’s Direct Sale While XRP & Dogecoin Stall Summing Up BlockDAG’s launch delivered on every metric that matters. CMC top 100 at listing. Opening volumes above Kaspa and Solana’s early days combined. Day-one staking ahead of early Solana levels. Three exchanges live, CoinStore, BitMart, and LBank, plus a 10% discount via BlockDAG’s own website swap. And the largest catalyst in the road map, Tier 1 US exchange listings, has not fired yet. The presale investors positioned before the launch. Launch buyers are now positioned before Tier 1 listings. That sequencing is still active, and the price targets, $0.20 near-term, $0.40 and $0.50 as the next levels, with a 100x scenario already in analyst models, reflect what the data is pointing toward. No other project that launched in 2026 has produced numbers like these across every single launch metric simultaneously. BDAG Swap: https://purchase3.blockdag.network/ Website: https://blockdag.network Telegram: https://t.me/blockDAGnetworkOfficial Discord: https://discord.gg/Q7BxghMVyu Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 12 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 18 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 23 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 38 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 50 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:19:07+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:16+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"298e730eea7ebeb8f08cacbc716ee83257b65cb1","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 blockdag hits cmc top 100 in under 24 hours here s why that s never happened before march 6 2026 5 19 pm branded content kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready march 2026 has already produced one of the most talked about crypto launches in recent memory blockdag went live on coinstore bitmart and lbank and from the first hour of trading the numbers were extraordinary bdag entered coinmarketcap s top 100 at the exact moment of listing at 10 am pst on launch day that has not happened with any other project at this scale opening trad","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"8b61d209c3f664b4","source_name":"Punch","source_domain":"punchng.com","source_list_url":"https://punchng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://punchng.com/why-i-dumped-pdp-for-apc-iyabo-obasanjo/?utm_source=rss.punchng.com&utm_medium=web","title":"Why I dumped PDP for APC — Iyabo Obasanjo","snippet":"Former senator Iyabo Obasanjo-Bello explains why she joined the APC after 15 years, citing personal relationships and consistent contact from party members","content_text":"▼ × Advertise with us Friday, March 06, 2026 Why I dumped PDP for APC — Iyabo Obasanjo March 6, 2026 5:17 pm File: Iyabo Obasanjo By Fawzi Kehinde Kindly share this story: Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Former senator Iyabo Obasanjo-Bello has said she joined the All Progressives Congress because members of the party were the only people who maintained contact with her during her over 15-year absence from active politics. She stated this on Channels Television’s Morning Brief on Friday. Obasanjo-Bello said she had not been a PDP member since 2011, when she lost her Senate re-election bid and subsequently left for a leadership fellowship at Harvard University, after which she pursued a PhD. “I have not been an active member or even a member at all of PDP since 2011. I do not see it as leaving one party to join another. I had no party,” she said. She dismissed suggestions that her APC membership was driven by a desire to align with the ruling party, noting that she had left the PDP while it still held federal power. “If I wanted to associate with a winner, I would have stayed in PDP then and continued. I could have lobbied for a federal appointment. I don’t see it that way,” she said. She attributed her APC membership to personal relationships rather than political calculation, saying the people who reached out to her during her years away from politics were all in the party. Ogun 2027: Why I don't need my father's support — Iyabo Obasanjo El-Rufai family declares ex-gov's detention unlawful, demands immediate release Alaafin hails Obasanjo at 89 “The other part of it is that when I was away, the people that reached out to me, I was talking to are all in APC. I don’t think anybody in the current PDP as it is, or ADC as it’s trying to be, communicated with me or asked, how are you doing? So for me, that was the fundamental reason. It’s this, it’s really the fact that, yes, it’s all politics, but politics, people are still human beings. “You need to care for people, you need to ask about them. We all need to, all human beings are self serving in some way, but also when you care about people, then they turn to you for, because I wasn’t lobbying, I guess that’s one thing I can say that nobody said, oh, you should join this or this will happen or you should join that. “So it was a decision made from that personal reason that people reached out to me, they’re talking to me, not to lobby me, but just people, we care about you and we like you, we love you as a human being, how are you doing? ” she said. Obasanjo-Bello, who s seeking the Ogun State governorship on the APC platform ahead of the 2027 general election, confirmed that she formally joined the APC after participating in the party’s e-registration exercise in Ibogun, Ward 11, Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State. She said supporters had urged her to return to politics for about two years before she made the decision. She ruled out returning to the PDP, citing the party’s internal crises, and said she also considered the African Democratic Congress but was uncertain about its readiness ahead of the elections. She described the APC as her natural home. Obasanjo-Bello had served as Ogun State Commissioner for Health under former governor Gbenga Daniel before winning a Senate seat representing Ogun Central in 2007. She lost her re-election bid in 2011 to Gbenga Obadara of the Action Congress of Nigeria, after which she returned to the United States and pursued an academic career, rising to the rank of professor. Fawzi Kehinde Kindly share this story: All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: [email protected] URGENT UPDATE: Nigerians can now invest #2.5million on premium domains and profit about #17-#25Million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rater then Wonder, Click here to find out how it works (Be sure to ask for evidence of clients that have benefitted from this). Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now! Join The Punch Newspapers Channel Stay in the know—fast. Get instant alerts, breaking headlines, and exclusive stories with the Punch News App. Download now and never miss a beat. Get the Punch News App Read PUNCH Anywhere Unlock the full print replica on any device - every page, every day. Subscribe now for instant e-edition access. Subscribe 18 minutes ago Agitation for creation of more Ijaw states must continue — Diri 24 minutes ago NDDC's projects boost N'Delta security — Air chief 29 minutes ago Middle East war: Islamic Movement rejects Israeli envoy's terrorism claims 44 minutes ago Cuba's government will 'fall pretty soon' - Trump 56 minutes ago Tinubu sets up committee for power grid management Gunmen attack Amaechi's convoy in Rivers, set ADC office ablaze March 6, 2026 4:24 pm FULL LIST: Tinubu's 65 ambassadors and their countries Group claims responsibility for Borno massacre, abduction of 300 residents US-Iran war: Marketers, Dangote trade words over petrol price DIG Mba, others retire, seven AIGs for promotion Borno: Hundreds still missing after Boko Haram attack Senate summons ex-NNPC boss Kyari over N210tn audit queries How Arsenal can win Premier League Pension funds hit N28tn as contributors exceed 11m Osun gov: Campaigns begin March 11 as INEC finalises candidates","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:17:49+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:20+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"5649daaaaad1fcd70b98d22ea3d162395801e94a","text_fingerprint":"advertise with us friday march 06 2026 why i dumped pdp for apc iyabo obasanjo march 6 2026 5 17 pm file iyabo obasanjo by fawzi kehinde kindly share this story getting your trinity audio player ready former senator iyabo obasanjo bello has said she joined the all progressives congress because members of the party were the only people who maintained contact with her during her over 15 year absence from active politics she stated this on channels television s morning brief on friday obasanjo bello said she had not been a pdp member since 2011 when she lost her senate re election bid and subsequ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"44f8ee7cb693dd51","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/more-news/861989-police-arrest-18-suspected-kidnappers-cultists-as-teen-held-for-murder-in-kwara.html","title":"Police arrest 18 suspected kidnappers, cultists as teen held for murder in Kwara","snippet":"The Commissioner of Police in the state, Adekimi Ojo, disclosed this on Friday during a press briefing in Ilorin.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Police arrest 18 suspected kidnappers, cultists om Kwara Police arrest 18 suspected kidnappers, cultists as teen held for murder in Kwara The Commissioner of Police in the state, Adekimi Ojo, disclosed this on Friday during a press briefing in Ilorin. byTunde Akanbi March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 4 mins read The Kwara State Police Command has arrested several people for alleged kidnapping, cultism and homicide in different parts of the state. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Adekimi Ojo, disclosed this on Friday during a press briefing in Ilorin. Mr Ojo said the Command had recently strengthened intelligence-driven operations and tactical deployments to dismantle criminal networks threatening public safety. “In recent weeks, the Command has intensified intelligence-driven operations, strengthened tactical deployments and collaborated with relevant security agencies to tackle violent crimes, including kidnapping and unlawful possession of firearms,” Mr Ojo said. He urged the media to report security developments accurately, noting that the partnership between the police and the press is vital in keeping residents informed and reassured. One of the cases highlighted involved the arrest of a 15-year-old boy over the alleged killing of a woman identified as Akanbi A. The police said the incident occurred on January 14, when officers received a distress report that the victim was found lying in a pool of blood in her residence. Investigations revealed that the suspect, who lived with the deceased, allegedly hid behind a door and attacked her with household items while she was bathing. Items recovered from the scene include a frying pan, a weighing scale, kitchen knives and a spatula. The police commissioner said the teenager claimed during interrogation that he was driven by resentment and that he failed in earlier attempts to poison the victim. “After committing the offence, the suspect reportedly changed his clothes and left the house under the guise of running an errand before contacting the deceased’s husband, who later discovered her lifeless body,” Mr Ojo said, adding that the suspect would be charged in court after investigations. In another development, three suspects – Bello Ori, Muhammadu Jemare and Mohammadu Shehu – were arrested over the kidnapping of construction workers and engineers along Owu Falls Road in Ifelodun Local Government Area. The police said the suspects were tracked and apprehended on 26 February after investigators traced one of the victims’ stolen mobile phones. Mr Ojo explained that the phone’s digital tracking helped officers identify and locate the suspects. Operatives also arrested 10 other suspects in Oro-Ago, Ifelodun LGA, during a joint intelligence-led operation carried out in the early hours of 1 March. The suspects were allegedly part of a kidnapping syndicate planning to infiltrate the area. The police recovered 10 Bajaj Boxer motorcycles believed to be used for criminal operations. Among those arrested were individuals said to be responsible for maintaining the motorcycles and providing logistics support to the group. “The suspects are currently in secure custody while in-depth investigations are ongoing to dismantle the wider criminal network and establish their link to other violent crimes,” the police boss said. In Moro Local Government Area, the police also arrested a 23-year-old woman, Awawu Bodo, after officers recovered a revolver and three live cartridges during a search of a residence linked to suspected kidnappers operating from Dogo Fulani Camp via Olooru. Mr Ojo said the woman, believed to be the wife of a principal suspect who fled the scene, is assisting investigators with useful information. At the same time, efforts continue to track down other suspects. Similarly, three men – Zubairu Abubakar, Alhaji Issa and Abdullahi Yahaya – were arrested during a routine stop-and-search operation along Duro/Kpada Road in Patigi. The police recovered a locally made revolver loaded with six rounds of AK-47 calibre ammunition as well as an unregistered Bajaj motorcycle from the suspects. Although the motorcycle rider claimed he was a commercial operator carrying the other two men as passengers, the suspects reportedly failed to give a satisfactory explanation for the firearm found in their possession. The Command also recorded breakthroughs in its crackdown on cultism in Ilorin metropolis. Three suspected cult members – Abadulrasheed Hammed, Abdulganeen Abdulafeez and Muhammed Nuhu Wahab – were arrested in connection with the shooting death of a 28-year-old man, Victor Mathew Nwachukwu, in front of Imam Filling Station in the Kulende area of Ilorin on January 6. During interrogation, the suspects allegedly confessed to being members of the Aiye and Alora confraternities. The police also recovered firearms, ammunition, battle axes, charms and items bearing the insignia of the Neo Black Movement cult group. Mr Ojo said further investigations are ongoing to apprehend other suspects who participated in the attack. In a related case, police arrested Sofiullahi Idowu, popularly known as “ID”, for criminal conspiracy, attempted homicide and cult-related violence. The suspect was apprehended after he allegedly aimed a locally made gun at a police officer during a violent confrontation involving suspected cultists in the Oke-Bonke community of Ilorin on December 24, 2025. “He confessed during interrogation that he was formerly the Number One leader of the Eiye confraternity in the Olunlade axis and admitted that he intended to shoot the police officer before he was overpowered,” the commissioner said. In the Erin-Ile community, police also arrested Noah Olorunyomi for allegedly killing a farmer and injuring another person in separate shootings. Investigations showed that the suspect allegedly ambushed and shot a man identified as Shina R at a cashew plantation, killing him instantly, while another victim, who was shot earlier in the abdomen, survived and is receiving medical treatment. Mr Ojo said the suspect has confessed to the crimes and will be prosecuted after the conclusion of investigations. The police commissioner said the successes recorded demonstrate the Command’s determination to maintain law and order through intelligence-led policing. READ ALSO: Terrorists raid Kwara village near Woro, loot shops “These operational successes clearly demonstrate our unwavering commitment to maintaining law and order in Kwara State through decisive tactical interventions,” he said. He commended officers involved in the operations for their professionalism and urged residents to continue supporting the police with credible information. “Security remains a collective responsibility, and we encourage citizens to provide credible and actionable intelligence that will assist us in safeguarding lives and property,” Mr Ojo added. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post The classroom on the floor, By Abdul Mahmud Tunde Akanbi All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T17:24:57+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:28+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"3cf9a5d149414ac4cdb8c978e432f0d608babaf3","text_fingerprint":"advertisement police arrest 18 suspected kidnappers cultists om kwara police arrest 18 suspected kidnappers cultists as teen held for murder in kwara the commissioner of police in the state adekimi ojo disclosed this on friday during a press briefing in ilorin bytunde akanbi march 6 2026 reading time 4 mins read the kwara state police command has arrested several people for alleged kidnapping cultism and homicide in different parts of the state the commissioner of police in the state adekimi ojo disclosed this on friday during a press briefing in ilorin mr ojo said the command had recently str","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"e9d2017fe19fcf7d","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/opinion/861985-the-classroom-on-the-floor-by-abdul-mahmud.html","title":"The classroom on the floor, By Abdul Mahmud","snippet":"A disturbing video from a public primary school in Ibiaku Itam in Itu Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State recently surfaced on social media. The footage showed a classroom in ruins. The walls appeared worn out and tired with age. The windows hung loosely on rusted hinges. The roof sagged dangerously toward collapse and […]","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT The classroom on the floor, By Abdul Mahmud byAbdul Mahmud March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 5 mins read Pupils at Ibiaku Itam Primary school sitting on bare floor to learn A disturbing video from a public primary school in Ibiaku Itam in Itu Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State recently surfaced on social media. The footage showed a classroom in ruins. The walls appeared worn out and tired with age. The windows hung loosely on rusted hinges. The roof sagged dangerously toward collapse and the floor was cracked and uneven. Inside that room, children were trying to learn. Only four functional dual desks could be seen in the classroom. Four pupils squeezed themselves onto desks designed for two. Several children sat directly on the bare floor, hunched over their exercise books. Some lay flat on their stomachs as they struggled to write. Others balanced themselves on broken planks that once passed for classroom furniture. Their teacher, without a table, perched awkwardly on a small stool while attempting to conduct a lesson. The scene looked like a forgotten village settlement abandoned to the ruins of time by the state decades ago. But, the school isn’t located in the brackish waters of the Niger Delta or in a remote village. According to PREMIUM TIMES which ran a report titled, “Akwa Ibom’s Paradox: Luxury SUVs for ex-officials while pupils sit on floors”, the school is located within Uyo, the capital city of Akwa Ibom, a state whose wealth flows from crude oil and which often prides itself of glittering hotels, expansive flyovers, and modern government buildings. But inside that classroom, children were writing on the floor. The scene is not merely embarrassing. It is devastating. It represents the quiet face of a national emergency that Nigeria has chosen not to confront. Public schools across the country are collapsing in slow motion. Roofs leak when the rains arrive. Desks are broken or entirely absent. Teachers are poorly trained, poorly paid, and frequently overwhelmed. Libraries do not exist in many schools. Laboratories are little more than fantasies. Toilets are unusable or nonexistent. In some schools pupils bring plastic chairs from home. In others they bring nothing at all and simply sit on the ground. For millions of Nigerian children, who the governors of the country have consistently described as “the leaders of tomorrow”, this has become the meaning of education. The future is literally learning from the floor. This tragedy did not occur suddenly. It has been carefully produced by the choices of those who govern the country. The neglect of public schools in Nigeria cannot simply be explained by incompetence or lack of resources. It reflects something deeper and far more troubling. It reflects the silent construction of a two-tier educational order in which one type of education is reserved for the rich while another inferior system is left for the poor. The children of the political class do not attend public schools. Neither do the children of senior civil servants, contractors, oil executives, or legislators. Their children attend expensive private schools in Abuja, Lagos, Uyo, Port Harcourt, and Ibadan. Many are sent abroad to Britain, Canada, or the United States even before they become teenagers. In those schools the classrooms are air conditioned. Laboratories are fully equipped. Libraries are stocked with books and digital resources. Teachers are well trained and closely supervised. Students have access to computers, sports facilities, and international curricula that prepare them for global opportunities. They are being educated to lead the future. Meanwhile, the children sitting on the floor in Ibiaku Itam are being prepared for something very different. They are being prepared for a life of limitation. Public schools have gradually become holding centres for the children of the poor. These schools are no longer structured to produce citizens who can compete confidently in a modern knowledge economy. Instead they quietly reproduce a social order in which the majority remain trapped at the margins of power. The children lying on classroom floors today will likely grow into the domestic workers, drivers, cleaners, security guards, and informal labourers of tomorrow. Their labour will sustain the comfort of the elite whose own children studied robotics, coding, international politics, and advanced sciences in well funded private schools. This arrangement is quietly creating an apartheid system. This is not the apartheid of race. It is the apartheid of class. In one Nigeria, children study with tablets, laptops, and interactive boards in climate controlled classrooms. In another Nigeria, children write from the bare floor, their exercise books spread across cracked floors. The distance between these two worlds grows wider each year, quietly hardening into a social order that reproduces privilege for a few and limitation for many. What appears on the surface as neglect is in truth a structure that separates the futures of children long before they become adults. The irony is that the political class never tires of praising education in public speeches. They speak solemnly of its importance as the foundation of national development, yet they remain unmoved when confronted with videos that expose the disturbing conditions of public schools. During election seasons they commission new school buildings, promise digital classrooms, and announce programmes of free education. Budget speeches are filled with impressive figures and declarations of commitment. The reality inside classrooms such as the one in Ibiaku Itam tells a very different story, revealing a system where grand promises coexist comfortably with quiet abandonment. The system endures precisely because those who preside over it have no stake in its survival. The children of governors, legislators, senior civil servants, and contractors do not sit in these collapsing classrooms. They do not compete for broken desks or lie on dusty floors to write their lessons. Their children attend carefully insulated private schools in Nigeria or elite institutions abroad where the quality of education is guaranteed and the future is carefully prepared. Having exited the public system, the political class feels no urgency to repair it. Public schools have become spaces reserved for other people’s children, distant from the everyday lives of those who make policy and control budgets. In such circumstances neglect becomes easy, indifference becomes routine, and decay becomes permanent. A system that no longer educates the children of the powerful quickly loses the attention of power itself. In many countries the quality of public schools improves precisely because the children of political leaders attend them. When leaders have a personal stake in public education they are compelled to fix it. Nigeria presents the opposite example. The ruling elite have effectively exited public education altogether. Once they left the system, it was quietly abandoned. Public schools were reduced to warehouses for the children of the poor. The video from Ibiaku Itam exposes the moral consequences of that abandonment. What it reveals is the quiet humiliation of a nation failing its youngest citizens. There’s a disturbing tragedy here that is at once psychological that can’t be overlooked. Children who grow up learning in such environments internalise the message that society does not value them. They absorb the idea that they are invisible and that their futures are negotiable. Education is meant to do the opposite. It should affirm the dignity and potential of every child. It should expand imagination and ambition and give young people the tools to transform their circumstances. But when a child must lie on the floor to write a sentence, the lesson that is learned is something else entirely. That lesson teaches submission. Nigeria frequently speaks about insecurity, unemployment, and youth frustration as though these crises appeared out of thin air. Here’s the truth: the seeds of these problems are planted in classrooms like the one in Ibiaku Itam. When a nation neglects the education of millions of children it quietly manufactures the conditions for its own instability. We can add another truth: no country builds future prosperity on the foundation of abandoned schools. The deeper tragedy is that Nigeria has the resources to do better. Oil revenues have flowed for decades. State governments build flyovers, luxury conference centres, and lavish government lodges. Political office holders move around in convoys of expensive vehicles. But the classroom floor continues to serve as the desk of the poor. The video from Ibiaku Itam should not merely provoke temporary outrage on social media. It should force a national reckoning. Nigerians must confront a difficult truth. The collapse of public education in the country is not accidental. It is structural. It is the silent mechanism through which inequality reproduces itself across generations. Until this structure is dismantled, classrooms like the one in Ibiaku Itam will continue to exist across Nigeria. Every child forced to write from the floor will carry the burden of a country that has already decided how far that child is allowed to rise. A country that abandons its schools eventually abandons its future. Nigeria is already walking that road. Abdul Mahmud, a human rights lawyer, writes from Abuja. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post ‘Teach your young girls how to cover up, being naked isn’t beauty’ – Remi Tinubu Next Post Police arrest 18 suspected kidnappers, cultists as teen held for murder in Kwara Abdul Mahmud All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:43:00+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:29+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"59ebebe8d6d72c661ebd1bac48298948fd7a2edd","text_fingerprint":"advertisement the classroom on the floor by abdul mahmud byabdul mahmud march 6 2026 reading time 5 mins read pupils at ibiaku itam primary school sitting on bare floor to learn a disturbing video from a public primary school in ibiaku itam in itu local government area of akwa ibom state recently surfaced on social media the footage showed a classroom in ruins the walls appeared worn out and tired with age the windows hung loosely on rusted hinges the roof sagged dangerously toward collapse and the floor was cracked and uneven inside that room children were trying to learn only four functional","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"895c69ee49dff319","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/entertainment/naija-fashion/861980-teach-your-young-girls-how-to-cover-up-being-naked-isnt-beauty-remi-tinubu.html","title":"‘Teach your young girls how to cover up, being naked isn't beauty’ - Remi Tinubu","snippet":"Her admonition comes amid growing calls by concerned individuals to curb the rising trend of indecent exposure among young women.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Oluremi Tinubu ‘Teach your young girls how to cover up, being naked isn’t beauty’ – Remi Tinubu Her admonition comes amid growing calls by concerned individuals to curb the rising trend of indecent exposure among young women. byFriday Omosola March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read Nigeria’s First Lady, Oluremi Tinubu, has advised parents to instil the value of modesty in their daughters. Mrs Tinubu advised on Thursday in Abuja while hosting Muslim and Christian women at an interfaith Iftar and Lent break-fast gathering. She also encouraged women across the country to take up mentoring roles for young girls. In a viral video obtained by PREMIUM TIMES, the former senator said: “I challenge you to have a mentee with you, so that not somebody you’ll have been mentoring all the time, but just pour into the life of a young girl from an indigent background. “You know, help them, even if it is to give a scholarship, encourage them, and teach them. Teach them good virtue. Teach them how to be good women.” Dressing Additionally, Mrs Tinubu stated that nudity does not define beauty, stressing the need for young women to dress decently. She maintained that while the reasons some young women dress in revealing ways remain unclear, true beauty comes from within. “Teach them how to dress well. Because we see that our young people, you know, they’ve really taken it, I don’t read social media, so it doesn’t bother me. I will take it again. Teach them how to cover up, and you know, being naked is not beauty. “You know, we don’t know why they are doing that, but beauty comes from within. You know, and our men, God will also help them and open their eyes. I know social media will go on”, said Mrs Tinubu. Backstory Mrs Tinubu’s admonition came amid growing calls by concerned individuals to curb the rising trend of indecent exposure among young women. This newspaper reported that filmmaker Biodun Stephen had advised young women not to go out without underwear. READ ALSO: Oluremi Tinubu urges unity as Christians and Muslims observe fasting together Ms Stephen, who began her filmmaking career in 2014 with the release of “The Visit”, emphasised the importance of women always wearing underwear, particularly in situations that might escalate into physical confrontations. “I do recall making a video a few years ago advising people to stop going out without wearing panties. You said my mouth smelled, but I didn’t stop because of the insults. After some time, I also made another video warning people to stop going out without wearing bras”, she said. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post 1win and the Nigerians set a Guinness World Record in Afrobeat dance Next Post The classroom on the floor, By Abdul Mahmud Friday Omosola All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:41:57+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:31+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"92b6d586512093524b1ccbc7127c6101d2d2c4e5","text_fingerprint":"advertisement oluremi tinubu teach your young girls how to cover up being naked isn t beauty remi tinubu her admonition comes amid growing calls by concerned individuals to curb the rising trend of indecent exposure among young women byfriday omosola march 6 2026 reading time 2 mins read nigeria s first lady oluremi tinubu has advised parents to instil the value of modesty in their daughters mrs tinubu advised on thursday in abuja while hosting muslim and christian women at an interfaith iftar and lent break fast gathering she also encouraged women across the country to take up mentoring roles","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"63ef9a8640405d81","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/promoted/861956-1win-and-the-nigerians-set-a-guinness-world-record-in-afrobeat-dance.html","title":"1win and the Nigerians set a Guinness World Record in Afrobeat dance","snippet":"With over 400 dancers, collaboration with prominent dance and influencer communities, and a fully active 1win organizing team, the event became a global phenomenon that spotlighted West African culture.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Guinness World Record in Afrobeat dance 1win and the Nigerians set a Guinness World Record in Afrobeat dance With over 400 dancers, collaboration with prominent dance and influencer communities, and a fully active 1win organizing team, the event became a global phenomenon that spotlighted West African culture. byPress Release March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read 1win Nigeria set the Guinness World Record for the Most Massive Afrobeat Dance, creating a moment that blended culture, community, and celebration in true Lagos style. With over 400 dancers, collaboration with prominent dance and influencer communities, and a fully active 1win organizing team, the event became a global phenomenon that spotlighted West African culture. With its Guinness World Record initiative, 1win aimed to spotlight Africa’s influence on global pop culture. Hosting the record attempt in Lagos was intentional. As one of Africa’s leading creative capitals, Lagos remains the heartbeat of Afrobeat, continually exporting culture rooted in its identity. 1win brought together over 400 creators, professional dancers, influencers, and culture lovers, all united by a love for afrobeatand committed to creating a new cultural milestone. Wizkid’s hit track “MONEY CONSTANT” was the highlight of this performance, capturing the boldness and rhythm of the Nigerian community. The record-breaking moment by 1win featured strong local collaboration with prominent dance and influencer communities. 1win partnered with Ifeoma “E4ma” Efiokwu and Emmanuella”Ellaley” Odiley of GGB Dance Studio, and influencer Trophy Bwoy, to set the energetic tone for the record day. This was a defining element: two influential names in Nigeria’s dance and creative community partnered with 1win to shine a spotlight on Afrobeat. The 1win team led the project from concept to execution. This underscores 1win’s commitment to delivering value and strengthening customer engagement across Africa and international markets. As the event’s final moments approached, the message was clear: when African communities come together for the love of culture, the result is powerful, unforgettable, and worthy of the world’s attention. Over the past decade, Afrobeats has gained significant international traction, with African artists selling out arenas, headlining major global festivals, and collaborating with world-renowned musicians across Europe, the Americas, and Asia. Songs rooted in African rhythms, language, and culture are now dominating streaming platforms and influencing mainstream soundscapes worldwide. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Photos: IWD: Food aid brings a smile to Makoko women’s faces Next Post ‘Teach your young girls how to cover up, being naked isn’t beauty’ – Remi Tinubu Press Release All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:28:56+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:33+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"9f1d3dd444b9e35cba73d0db583cb204c9527c7c","text_fingerprint":"advertisement guinness world record in afrobeat dance 1win and the nigerians set a guinness world record in afrobeat dance with over 400 dancers collaboration with prominent dance and influencer communities and a fully active 1win organizing team the event became a global phenomenon that spotlighted west african culture bypress release march 6 2026 reading time 2 mins read 1win nigeria set the guinness world record for the most massive afrobeat dance creating a moment that blended culture community and celebration in true lagos style with over 400 dancers collaboration with prominent dance and","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"c56a09a47af92439","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/861947-photos-iwd-food-aid-brings-a-smile-to-makoko-womens-faces.html","title":"Photos: IWD: Food aid brings a smile to Makoko women’s faces","snippet":"Ms Adepeju said the programme is inspired by the role of women in the family.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Photos: IWD: Food aid brings a smile to Makoko women’s faces Ms Adepeju said the programme is inspired by the role of women in the family. byOluwakemi Adelagun March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read About 30 widows in Makoko, a waterfront community in Lagos, received food items from IDA Beauty on Thursday, as part of activities marking International Women’s Day. This year’s campaign theme is “Give To Gain,’ to encourage the mindset of generosity and collaboration. The food empowerment programme, in partnership with Tabitha-Kay Widow Care Foundation, aimed to support vulnerable families in the community and bring relief to those in need. This is as the floating slum faces severe humanitarian challenges following forced eviction by the Lagos state government. These actions have disproportionately affected women and children, resulting in loss of shelter. Makoko widows The beneficiaries during the presentation of the food items The women, numbering up to 30, received food items including rice, groundnut oil, spaghetti, salt and tomato paste. The beneficiaries, mostly traders, expressed gratitude to the organisers for reaching out to them. “I’m happy. May God bless her. I have even prayed for her,” said Mariya Wenu, a food seller. Similarly, Angelina Ajibade, a fish seller, urged the organisers to “always remember to reach out” to them. “They love us, and that is why they reach out to us,” she said. However, Margaret Andrew, while thanking the organisers, noted that she would appreciate capital to kickstart a new business. The fish trader noted that she would like to venture into the soft drinks trade. Also, Sarah Johnson applauded the organisers for the food support. Makoko ‘widows’ in joyous mood at the food empowerment programmed “We are happy. We are grateful,” Johnson Sarah,” she said. In her remark, Idowu Adepeju, founder of Ida Beauty, said that the IWD is to celebrate and acknowledge women’s incredible strength, especially the young widows present. “We see the silent strength it takes to wake up each day and keep going,” Ms Adepeju said. “We see the weight you carry. We see the courage it takes to rebuild when life changes unexpectedly.” She commended the women for standing tall despite the storm that had reshaped their world, proving strength beyond measure. Ms Adepeju reminded the widows that their “story did not end when tragedy happened.” Similarly, Dorcas Adelaja, the cofounder of Tabitha-Kay Widow Care, described the initiative as thoughtful and great. Dorcas Adelaja, the cofounder of Tabitha-Kay Widow Care and Idowu Adepeju, founder of Ida Beauty at the event in Makoko on Thursday Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Alleged Coup: Families of detained officers demand open trial, presidential mercy Next Post 1win and the Nigerians set a Guinness World Record in Afrobeat dance Oluwakemi Adelagun All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:24:51+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:35+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"13576568dd5ccf04bc95beaf701aee917100cd7e","text_fingerprint":"advertisement photos iwd food aid brings a smile to makoko women s faces ms adepeju said the programme is inspired by the role of women in the family byoluwakemi adelagun march 6 2026 reading time 2 mins read about 30 widows in makoko a waterfront community in lagos received food items from ida beauty on thursday as part of activities marking international women s day this year s campaign theme is give to gain to encourage the mindset of generosity and collaboration the food empowerment programme in partnership with tabitha kay widow care foundation aimed to support vulnerable families in the ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"e13d78fa749427b8","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/861957-alleged-coup-families-of-detained-officers-demand-open-trial-presidential-mercy.html","title":"Alleged Coup: Families of detained officers demand open trial, presidential mercy","snippet":"Addressing President Tinubu directly, the families invoked his roles as a father and grandfather, and appealed to First Lady Remi Tinubu as a mother, grandmother, and pastor to look upon their plight with compassion.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Alleged coup: Families of detained officers demand open trial, presidential pardon Alleged Coup: Families of detained officers demand open trial, presidential mercy Addressing President Tinubu directly, the families invoked his roles as a father and grandfather, and appealed to First Lady Remi Tinubu as a mother, grandmother, and pastor to look upon their plight with compassion. byKabir Yusuf March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 5 mins read The wives and family members of military officers detained over an alleged plot to overthrow President Bola Tinubu’s government have publicly appealed to the president and the Nigerian military to release the suspects, grant them access to their families, and ensure they receive fair and open trials. Speaking at a press conference in Abuja, the families said the officers — who have now spent more than 160 days in detention — have been subjected to what they described as a deeply traumatic ordeal, compounded by alleged intimidation and a shifting official narrative. “We have been forced to watch helplessly as the military continues to present unfounded narratives to an unsuspecting public, subjecting our spouses to trial by media. While we are consumed by pain, we are also subjected to aggression and intimidation by the very men in uniform who swore an oath to protect us,” the families said in a joint statement. Although the statement was not signed, PREMIUM TIMES confirmed its authenticity and it was shared with this newspaper by a son of one of the detained officers. Alleged coup: Families of detained officers demand open trial, presidential pardon Appeal to the President and First Lady Addressing President Tinubu directly, the families invoked his roles as a father and grandfather and appealed to First Lady Remi Tinubu, as a mother, grandmother, and pastor, to look upon their plight with compassion. “We speak today not with anger, but with the heavy hearts of wives and mothers. We appeal to you, Mr President, GCFR, a father and grandfather, and to you, Her Excellency the First Lady, a mother, grandmother, and revered pastor, as leaders of this nation at this moment in time, to please look upon our situation with compassion, wisdom, courage, and justice. We beseech you to examine and be receptive to all the facts and arguments of this highly sensitive case with an open mind,” the statement read. The families demanded that the detained officers be treated as innocent until proven guilty, as guaranteed under the 1999 Constitution. “The allegations against them must not be used as a tool or to make them scapegoats. We want due process, nothing more and nothing less.” Appeal to the Military Turning to the Nigerian military, the families appealed to officers and soldiers to remember their humanity. “We are not your enemies. We are mothers, wives, and sisters. We do not understand how the same institution they served has turned against them. We do not understand how the men meant to defend us have become the source of our tears. If you have wives and children at home, if you know what it means to long for a loved one’s embrace, we beg you, look into your hearts. Grant us access to our husbands. Let us know they are alive. Let us know they have not been forgotten by the very nation they served at the frontlines.” Shifting Narrative, Shrinking Figures Alleged coup: Families of detained officers demand open trial, presidential pardon The families also highlighted what they said were inconsistencies in the reported accounts of the alleged conspiracy. “The initial narrative reported by the media is that N12 billion was found in the account of one of the officers. Now, the story has changed completely. The figure is now said to be N835 million, and it is no longer found in the officer’s account but in a company account. In other words, the narrative did not just change slightly — the figures reduced by over 93 per cent. What was presented as a massive N12 billion discovery has now become less than seven per cent of that original figure, and it is no longer even attributed to any officer.” The families also questioned the military’s narrative that the soldiers were initially detained for indiscipline before it was announced that they conspired to commit a coup d’état. “We respectfully ask: What changed? What new evidence emerged to justify such a grave escalation? If there is evidence, show it. If there is a case, prove it.” Demand for Open Trial With investigations declared complete more than six weeks ago, the families demanded that trials begin immediately in an open court of law. “We do not want secret military proceedings. We do not want narratives fed to the press. We want a public court. The Constitution guarantees a fair hearing. We are not asking for special treatment. We are asking for exactly what the law provides.” The statement continued: “Justice must not only be done, but it must be seen to be done. A secret trial is no trial at all. A hidden proceeding is not justice — it is a continuation of the very pain we have endured for over 160 days.” The families made a final plea to every soldier: “You wear the uniform with pride. You are trained to protect. We are not asking you to betray your institution. We are asking you to remember your humanity. These men are not faceless suspects. They are someone’s father. Someone’s husband. Someone’s entire world. If the situation were reversed, would you not want the same transparency and openness we now beg for? Open the gates. Grant us access. Let us see our husbands. Let us hold their hands. Let us know they are still alive.” “We are not asking for favours. We are asking for our constitutional rights. We are asking for the truth. We are asking for our husbands,” the statement ended, with a direct appeal to history: “We appeal to you, Mr President, to do what is just. Open the doors of the court. Let the world see. And to the military, we appeal to you as fellow Nigerians: Remember your oath. Remember your humanity. Let us see our husbands, for history and posterity will always remember your actions.” Background: The Alleged Plot The alleged plot to overthrow President Tinubu’s government ran deeper than previously known, with security agencies uncovering what they describe as a wide-ranging conspiracy involving serving military officers, a police officer, and several civilians. Earlier reports indicated that the alleged conspirators had planned to assassinate President Tinubu, Vice President Kashim Shettima, Senate President Godswill Akpabio, Speaker of the House of Representatives Tajudeen Abbas, and service chiefs. PREMIUM TIMES can now report that the targets also included the National Security Adviser (NSA), Nuhu Ribadu; former Minister of Defence, Abubakar Badaru; Minister of State for Defence, Bello Matawalle; Inspector General of Police, Kayode Egbetokun; and the Director-General of the State Security Service (DG-SSS), Adeola Ajayi. According to investigators, the plot involved deploying officers to seize control of key strategic locations, including the Presidential Villa, the Niger Barracks, the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) Complex, and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport. Weapons and Assets Recovered Following the arrest of suspects, investigators recovered two gun trucks, anti-aircraft guns, PKT guns, RPG bombs, AK-47 rifles, ammunition, and tactical gear from Lieutenant Colonel A.A. Hayatu, attached to the 130 Battalion Main. Also seized were four Toyota Hilux trucks, one Toyota Prado SUV, two Toyota saloon cars, and 32 Volkswagen Golf vehicles allegedly procured for covert operations. “All recovered exhibits are in the custody of the DIA,” a source told PREMIUM TIMES, adding that “recovered funds have been lodged into the Nigerian Army Corps of Military Police account domiciled with the Central Bank of Nigeria.” READ ALSO: EXCLUSIVE: The two persons accused of bankrolling alleged coup plot to overthrow Tinubu Where the Case Stands The Defence Headquarters announced last month that investigations had been completed and forwarded to the “appropriate superior authority in line with extant regulations.” The military described the conduct of the implicated officers as “inconsistent with the ethics, values, and professional standards required of members of the Armed Forces of Nigeria.” PREMIUM TIMES had earlier reported that 40 suspects are in detention, including senior military officers across the armed forces, a police officer, and civilians allegedly involved in reconnaissance, funding, and propaganda operations. The suspects were captured in a covert intelligence operation coordinated by the Army Headquarters and the State Security Service (SSS). An unspecified number of civilians remain in custody and are being investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the SSS for alleged roles in financing, logistics, and coordination. Others have been granted bail. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Friday Sermon: A responsible government must stop the killings of its citizens!, By Murtadha Gusau Next Post Photos: IWD: Food aid brings a smile to Makoko women’s faces Kabir Yusuf All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:13:29+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:37+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"a4d711249d10e8cdcc388e93af94d4e1d1526e03","text_fingerprint":"advertisement alleged coup families of detained officers demand open trial presidential pardon alleged coup families of detained officers demand open trial presidential mercy addressing president tinubu directly the families invoked his roles as a father and grandfather and appealed to first lady remi tinubu as a mother grandmother and pastor to look upon their plight with compassion bykabir yusuf march 6 2026 reading time 5 mins read the wives and family members of military officers detained over an alleged plot to overthrow president bola tinubu s government have publicly appealed to the pre","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"186141c9dcf6cddd","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/opinion/861961-friday-sermon-a-responsible-government-must-stop-the-killings-of-its-citizens-by-murtadha-gusau.html","title":"Friday Sermon: A responsible government must stop the killings of its citizens!, By Murtadha Gusau","snippet":"If you have the power to stop a killing, you are a guardian of that life. If you allow it, you are a partner in it.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Friday Sermon: A responsible government must stop the killings of its citizens!, By Murtadha Gusau Ya Allah, our lord, unite our great nation, Nigeria around the principles of justice, peace, love and faith. byMurtadha Gusau March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 6 mins read Every leader should reflect and ask himself: What will I say when Allah asks about the weak who were under my care and authority? Sincerity, humility, and service to the Ummah are the only shields against the disgrace of that Day. Therefore a leader must be just to earn Allah’s shade and mercy on the Day of Judgment! In the Name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful All praise is due to Allah, who created souls and gave them life, who honoured them through Islam and made them precious, and who threatened those who transgress against them with the Fire and its blazing heat. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship but Allah, alone without partner, and I bear witness that Muhammad is His servant and Messenger. May Allah’s peace and abundant blessings be upon him, ameen. To proceed: Dear brothers and sisters! Recent events show a widening pattern of killings, abductions and reprisals in our country Nigeria, especially in the northern part, stretching from Kaduna, Benue, Taraba, Katsina, Plateau, Borno, Yobe, Bauchi, Adamawa, to Zamfara, Kebbi, Niger, Kogi, Kwara and elsewhere. The scale of fatalities alone demands sustained national attention. Last week only, at least 50 people were killed and several women and children abducted in an attack on Dutsin Dan Ajiya Village, in Anka Local Government Area of Zamfara State. The attack occurred on Thursday, 19 February, when the terrorists and bandits on motorbikes surrounded the village, blocking all exits before unleashing terror on defenceless residents. Respected brothers and sisters! Know that a government is not just an administrative body; it is a trust (amanah) instituted by Allah to uphold justice and protect human dignity. The sanctity of life is a primary objective of Shari’ah, meaning that any responsible and serious government must prioritise the protection of its citizen’s lives above all else. Allah Almighty says: “…Whoever kills a soul… it is as if he had slain mankind entirely. And whoever saves one – it is as if he had saved mankind entirely.” [Qur’an, 5:32] This Qur’anic verse establishes that any government failing to protect its citizens from unlawful killing is neglecting its duty before Allah Almighty. The Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) likened leaders to shepherds responsible for their flocks. A government that didn’t stop the slaughter of the innocent people violates this trust, as the state holds the ultimate duty to ensure security. Caliph Umar Ibn Al-Khattab (RA) exemplified that a leader is accountable for all, famously stating he feared divine questioning even if a sheep died due to neglect. This highlights that a government is responsible for the blood of its citizens. Injustice is forbidden, as Allah has prohibited oppression among humanity. Allowing the killing of citizens is a severe, systemic injustice that invites divine wrath and punishments. Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) said: “The best jihad is to speak the truth to a leader.” [Sunan Abu Dawud] Citizens have a moral duty to hold their governments accountable and demand that it stops the bloodshed. Allah the Most High says: “And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Hell…” [Qur’an, 4:93] A government that has the power to stop such killings but fails to act bears immense responsibility. Therefore, the government must protect life, property, and honour of its citizens. Justice must be applied equally, regardless of the faith or status of the citizen. All leaders are accountable to Allah and the citizens. The shedding of innocent blood is one of the greatest sins. The preservation of human life is a fundamental objective of any law. A government is not merely a political authority; it is a trust and a shepherd responsible for the safety of its flock. The Qur’an categorises the unjust killing of a single soul as equivalent to killing all of humanity, and saving one life as saving all of humanity. Therefore, a responsible government must stop the killing of its citizens. The Messenger of Allah (Peace be upon him) said: “A leader is a shield for his followers. They fight behind him and they are protected by him from tyrants and aggressors.” [Sahih Muslim] A government that does not protect its citizens from killing has lost its purpose as a “shield.” When Caliph Umar Ibn al-Khattab (RA) was leader, he often said: “If a camel dies on the bank of the Euphrates due to negligence, I fear that Allah will hold me accountable.” If an animal’s death is the responsibility of the leader, how much more so is the blood of a human being? A responsible government must be vigilant against all loss of life. Dear brothers and sisters! Know that, the primary responsibility of a leader is the safety, security, and honour of their citizens. Remember that all leaders will stand before Allah, the Sovereign Judge. The first cases to be settled on the Day of Judgment are the cases of murder. If you have the power to stop a killing, you are a guardian of that life. If you allow it, you are a partner in it. Therefore a responsible government must stop the killing of its citizens. The sanctity of human life is a foundational pillar of governance. A responsible government is, first and foremost, a guardian of its citizen’s lives, property, and honour. Even in times of war, the Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) prohibited the killing of women, children, the elderly, and the innocent. If this applies to enemies, how much more strictly must it apply to a government’s own peaceful citizens? Islam guarantees the right of life for every human being, whether Muslim or non-Muslim. And preventing the loss of life is the highest form of Jihad (struggle) in the context of maintaining societal stability. Finally, as mentioned earlier, leadership is viewed not as a position of privilege, but as a heavy trust (amanah) for which every individual will be held strictly accountable by Allah Almighty. On the Day of Judgement, every leader — from a president and a head of state to the head of a household — will stand before their Creator (Allah) to account for those under their care. Our beloved leader, The Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) said: “Each of you is a shepherd, and each of you will be asked about his flock.” Allah will ask leaders if they fulfilled the rights of those they led or if they neglected them. Authentic narrations state that any man appointed over even ten people will be brought on the Day of Resurrection with his hands shackled to his neck. Only his justice and righteousness can untie those chains; otherwise, his sins will keep him imprisoned. Many people will crave leadership in this life, but the Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) warned it would be a source of “humiliation and remorse” on the Day of Judgement for those who were not fit for the task. The second Caliph, Umar Ibn Al-Khattab, known for his immense justice, famously said: “Even if a mule were to stumble on the road in Iraq, I would fear that Allah would hold me accountable for neglecting it.” He spent his nights personally investigating the conditions of his people to ensure no one was oppressed. Ali Ibn Abi Talib (RA) led a life of extreme simplicity, once found shivering in a worn-out sheet because he chose to prioritise the needs of the Ummah over his own comfort. He refused any help that might promote his personal interest over the unity of the Muslims Ummah. A just leader is one of the seven types of people who will be granted Allah’s Shade on the Day when there is no shade but His. Power is described as a test from Allah to see how one uses what they have been given. A leader’s actions are monitored and recorded, reminding them that worldly status will not protect them; only their justice will. And Muslims are advised not to hanker and scramble after positions of authority. Because if leadership is given without one asking for it, Allah provides divine assistance; if it is sought out, the person is left alone with their heavy responsibility. Allah has forbidden injustice for Himself and made it forbidden among His servants. Leaders who oppress or cheat those under their care will face severe consequences. Every leader should reflect and ask himself: What will I say when Allah asks about the weak who were under my care and authority? Sincerity, humility, and service to the Ummah are the only shields against the disgrace of that Day. Therefore a leader must be just to earn Allah’s shade and mercy on the Day of Judgment! Ya Allah, our lord, unite our great nation, Nigeria around the principles of justice, peace, love and faith. Ya Allah, put peace and love in our hearts for the diversity that makes our country so beautiful. Oh Lord, most Strong, Give us the strength to protect and care for our neighbours. Oh Lord, we pray for our nation, Nigeria, to remain loving, compassionate, remove prejudice from our hearts, and enable us to love our brothers and sisters of all faiths and none. Make our hearts and minds aware of our heritage, fulfilling duties and responsibilities as a citizen of our country! Ya Allah, the Most Merciful, allow us to show kindness to those most vulnerable in society. Protect us from all evil, inspire and guide us in defending those open to abuse. Lord, the Most Generous allow us to give in charitable activity, and to help those most in need. Lord give our Governments vision and wisdom, as they take decisions affecting peace in our world. Ya Allah, our Sustainer, allow us to care for our environments and sustain this world for future generations. Lord, the Most merciful, Most Generous, please give us the patience to continue to learn from one another and work towards a more peaceful and kind world. Make true in our nation the ideas of freedom and justice and brotherhood for all those who live for them. Make our hearts generous so that we may treat others as we wish to be treated ourselves. Help us to share that which we have with others, for your sake. Strengthen us, love us and be kind to us all. All praise is due only to The Almighty Allah, and may His peace and blessings be upon Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him), the final Messenger and the seal of Prophets. Murtadha Muhammad Gusau is the Chief Imam of Nagazi-Uvete Jumu’ah and the late Alhaji Abdur-Rahman Okene’s Mosques, Okene, Kogi State, Nigeria. He can be reached via: [email protected] or +2348038289761 or +2348024192217. This Jumu’ah Khutbah (Friday sermon) was prepared for delivery today, Friday, Ramadan 17, 1447 AH (6 March, 2026). Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Nigerian governor orders destruction of community shrines, deities, gives reason Next Post Alleged Coup: Families of detained officers demand open trial, presidential mercy Murtadha Gusau All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:10:05+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:40+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"d543f62481fa64b60b1394e56ea4b3f63a79c8cb","text_fingerprint":"advertisement friday sermon a responsible government must stop the killings of its citizens by murtadha gusau ya allah our lord unite our great nation nigeria around the principles of justice peace love and faith bymurtadha gusau march 6 2026 reading time 6 mins read every leader should reflect and ask himself what will i say when allah asks about the weak who were under my care and authority sincerity humility and service to the ummah are the only shields against the disgrace of that day therefore a leader must be just to earn allah s shade and mercy on the day of judgment in the name of alla","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"f7dbd149bc5b2202","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/ssouth-east/861948-nigerian-governor-orders-destruction-of-community-shrines-deities-gives-reason.html","title":"Nigerian governor orders destruction of community shrines, deities, gives reason","snippet":"Amasiri, a community in Afikpo LGA, has been in a prolonged land dispute with neighbouring Okporojo village in the Oso community of Edda, another council area in Ebonyi State.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Ebonyi state governor, Francis Nwifuru. Nigerian governor orders destruction of community shrines, deities, gives reason Amasiri, a community in Afikpo LGA, has been in a prolonged land dispute with neighbouring Okporojo village in the Oso community of Edda, another council area in Ebonyi State. byJames Eze March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read Governor Francis Nwifuru of Ebonyi State has ordered the destruction of all shrines and deities in Amasiri Community following violent clashes with neighbouring Okporojo Community in the state. Mr Nwifuru announced the directive on Thursday after an expanded Security Council meeting held at the Old Government House in Abakaliki, the state capital. PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported that Amasiri, a community in Afikpo Local Government Area of the state, was recently involved in a renewed land dispute with neighbouring Okporojo, in Oso Community of Edda Local Government Area of the state. Thursday’s security meeting reviewed the security situation arising from the dispute between the two communities in the southeastern state. Show the locations of the shrine Mr Nwifuru directed that community leaders in Amasiri are required to show the state government and security agencies the locations of all shrines in the clan to enable the destruction. “The council has also directed that all the shrines and deities in the Amasiri clan be destroyed, and stakeholders of the area are under an obligation to show the state government and security agencies the locations of the shrines,” he said. The governor also announced the constitution of a 19-member committee to demarcate the disputed boundary between the two communities. He said the demarcation exercise had become necessary following an agreement reached by both parties to resolve the lingering boundary dispute. Mr Nwifuru said the committee would be chaired by the state Commissioner for Border and Conflict Resolution, Paul Nwobashi. Other members are the surveyor-general of the state, the commissioner for lands and survey, the commissioner for primary and secondary education, and the chairpersons of the Traditional Rulers’ Councils across the 13 local government areas in the state. Boniface Chima is a member of the committee, while Sunday Oyibe will serve as its secretary. ‘Curfew remains, severed heads must be provided’ Mr Nwifuru recently ordered a curfew and the shutdown of all schools in Amasiri Community in the wake of the crisis, following the Nigerian Army’s deployment of troops in the area. Speaking on Thursday, the governor said the curfew earlier imposed on the community would remain in force until the severed heads of victims allegedly killed during the crisis in Okporojo were recovered. The expanded security meeting was attended by heads of security agencies, traditional rulers, members of the Elders’ Council and stakeholders from Okporojo, Amasiri, Akpoha and Afikpo. Background Amasiri, a community in Afikpo LGA, has been embroiled in a prolonged land dispute with neighbouring Okporojo village in the Oso community of Edda, another council area in the state. The dispute, in January, led to the beheading of four indigenes of Okporojo village in Oso Community and the destruction of their properties. The deadly attack was allegedly carried out by the people of Amasiri which prompted Mr Nwifuru, in late January, to sack all his political appointees from the community. The Ebonyi governor equally dethroned traditional rulers from the Amasiri Community over their alleged complicity in the attack and dispute. READ ALSO: EFCC arraigns Chinese national for deception He declared a curfew in the community and shut down schools in the area. Mr Nwifuru would later relax the curfew from 2 p.m. – 10 a.m. to 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. He maintained that the Amasiri people must produce the severed heads of the Okporojo indigenes. The Nigerian Army later announced that it deployed troops in a joint operation within Amasiri and its adjoining communities to protect innocent citizens Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Ngoshe Attack: Group claims responsibility, threatens more attacks Next Post Friday Sermon: A responsible government must stop the killings of its citizens!, By Murtadha Gusau James Eze All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T15:48:10+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:42+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"9efb5f67556ab8d84d48cd5f42d9c1e4ddfc83a1","text_fingerprint":"advertisement ebonyi state governor francis nwifuru nigerian governor orders destruction of community shrines deities gives reason amasiri a community in afikpo lga has been in a prolonged land dispute with neighbouring okporojo village in the oso community of edda another council area in ebonyi state byjames eze march 6 2026 reading time 2 mins read governor francis nwifuru of ebonyi state has ordered the destruction of all shrines and deities in amasiri community following violent clashes with neighbouring okporojo community in the state mr nwifuru announced the directive on thursday after a","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"20e248f2c39338cf","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/861946-ngoshe-attack-group-claims-responsibility-threatens-more-attacks.html","title":"Ngoshe Attack: Group claims responsibility, threatens more attacks","snippet":"Many soldiers and civilians were reportedly killed, and hundreds of residents were abducted in the carnage.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Gunmen used to illustrate the story Ngoshe Attack: Group claims responsibility, threatens more attacks Many soldiers and civilians were reportedly killed, and hundreds of residents were abducted in the carnage. byMuhammad M. Ali March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read An unknown armed group has claimed responsibility for Wednesday’s deadly attack on the Ngoshe community in the Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State. Many soldiers and civilians were reportedly killed, and hundreds of residents were abducted in the carnage. PREMIUM TIMES reported how the Nigerian Army killed over 50 of the terrorists as they retreated from the community. The terrorists had infiltrated the town on Wednesday night and first attacked the military base. A video viewed by our reporter showed hundreds of the displaced people taking refuge outside their community on Thursday. On Friday, PREMIUM TIMES gathered that the Insurgents have claimed responsibility. Punch newspaper, relying on a video, reported that the Insurgents claimed total occupation of the community. It also threatened to use the people it abducted as slaves. The insurgents spoke in Hausa, saying they were inside the central mosque in Ngoshe and planned to remain in the town and make it part of its territory. They admitted to killing men and women and abducting many residents, threatening to extend their attacks to Maiduguri and Abuja. Some videos released by the group showed alleged scenes from the attack, including the killing of men, women and children. Eyewitnesses said the attack lasted for several hours before the air component of Operation Hadin Kai forced the attackers to retreat into nearby forests. The spokesperson of the Borno State Police Command, Nahum Daso, confirmed the attack, saying the number of people killed was not yet known and many residents were still missing. According to him, some victims might have been abducted and taken towards the Mandara Mountains. In his reaction, the Borno State Commissioner for Information and Internal Security, Usman Tar, said the government was still verifying the number of victims. READ ALSO: Bandits burn cashew-laden vehicle in Kogi’s Yagba West He added that the state government had sent relief materials to survivors currently taking refuge in Pulka town. The support includes food items such as rice, sugar, millet and blankets for affected families. Mr Tar also said health workers and sanitation officials have been sent to the area to prevent possible disease outbreaks, while the military continues to provide security for the delivery of aid. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Oluremi Tinubu urges unity as Christians and Muslims observe fasting together Next Post Nigerian governor orders destruction of community shrines, deities, gives reason Muhammad M. Ali All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T15:46:55+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:43+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"ba416716cc4b35741044bf3182c00a8a86a5268f","text_fingerprint":"advertisement gunmen used to illustrate the story ngoshe attack group claims responsibility threatens more attacks many soldiers and civilians were reportedly killed and hundreds of residents were abducted in the carnage bymuhammad m ali march 6 2026 reading time 2 mins read an unknown armed group has claimed responsibility for wednesday s deadly attack on the ngoshe community in the gwoza local government area of borno state many soldiers and civilians were reportedly killed and hundreds of residents were abducted in the carnage premium times reported how the nigerian army killed over 50 of t","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"33429eb6532f1ba4","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/gender/861945-oluremi-tinubu-urges-unity-as-christians-and-muslims-observe-fasting-together.html","title":"Oluremi Tinubu urges unity as Christians and Muslims observe fasting together","snippet":"Mrs Tinubu has called on Nigerians to heed a divine message of unity as Christians and Muslims observe fasting concurrently.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Oluremi Tinubu at the Interfaith Breaking of fast Oluremi Tinubu urges unity as Christians and Muslims observe fasting together Mrs Tinubu has called on Nigerians to heed a divine message of unity as Christians and Muslims observe fasting concurrently. byOluwakemi Adelagun March 6, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read Nigeria’s First Lady, Oluremi Tinubu, has called on Nigerians to embrace peaceful coexistence and religious tolerance, describing the simultaneous observance of Ramadan and Lent as a “divine message” urging unity across faiths. Mrs Tinubu spoke at an Interfaith Breaking of Fast event for women on Thursday in Abuja, emphasising that Jesus’ teachings can be summarised as loving God and loving one another. “Since the Ramadan fast was announced, and the Lent season began together, it was like God was speaking to us as a nation,” Mrs Tinubu said. “Recently, we know a lot of things have been going on, and people are trying to target our religious beliefs… And we Nigerians, we know that most of the time that is not the case.” The First Lady’s call comes amidst growing insecurity and division in the country. PREMIUM TIMES reported a series of incidents, including the kidnapping of church members in Kwara State, as well as pupils in Kebbi and Niger States. The attacks sparked criticism and renewed debate over the role of religious leaders in responding to the country’s escalating security challenges. However, the federal government have repeatedly dismissed attempts to portray the country’s security crisis as religiously driven, saying terrorists and criminal groups were attacking citizens across all faiths and regions. Interfaith meeting Drawing from her nearly 40-year marriage to President Bola Tinubu, a Muslim, to illustrate the power of interfaith understanding, she highlighted the importance of peaceful coexistence. “I cannot remember when both of us raised our voices at each other. Maybe not more than twice in the 40 years,” she said, emphasising mutual respect as key to a harmonious life together. READ ALSO: Tinubu approves posting of ambassadors to 65 countries The First Lady challenged women in public roles to serve with excellence, compassion, and integrity, and urged Nigerians to shed entitlement mentalities. She also stressed the need to mentor youths, saying, “The old school is still modern… So we have the real intelligence to pass on to the next generation.” On her part, Ganiyat Adesina-Uthman, a director at the National Open University of Nigeria, highlighted a “crisis of trust” in public office, emphasising that integrity is non-negotiable. “If you are lacking in integrity, then you are clearly a fraud… Your name and your character must be the same,” she said. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post TRENDING: Charly Boy surprises Obasanjo with large gift box at 89th birthday celebration Next Post Ngoshe Attack: Group claims responsibility, threatens more attacks Oluwakemi Adelagun All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-06T15:40:31+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:45+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"658051c2da2b9744a61483ceb99f286ff99c4cee","text_fingerprint":"advertisement oluremi tinubu at the interfaith breaking of fast oluremi tinubu urges unity as christians and muslims observe fasting together mrs tinubu has called on nigerians to heed a divine message of unity as christians and muslims observe fasting concurrently byoluwakemi adelagun march 6 2026 reading time 2 mins read nigeria s first lady oluremi tinubu has called on nigerians to embrace peaceful coexistence and religious tolerance describing the simultaneous observance of ramadan and lent as a divine message urging unity across faiths mrs tinubu spoke at an interfaith breaking of fast ev","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"ad38c07c57102aa6","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/suspected-bandits-nabbed-with-firearms-tramadol-in-kwara/","title":"Suspected Bandits Nabbed With Firearms, Tramadol In Kwara - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) said it has arrested two suspected bandits during an intelligence-led","content_text":"--> News Suspected bandits nabbed with firearms, tramadol in Kwara By Mumini Abdulkareem, Ilorin Fri, 6 Mar 2026 17:40:16 WAT The Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) said it has arrested two suspected bandits during an intelligence-led operation in Saminaka Community, Patigi Local Government Area of Kwara State.The suspects, Abubakar Jubril, 28, and Mohammed Abubakar, 26, were apprehended on Tuesday, March 3, 2026, following sustained surveillance by operatives of the command. According to the NSCDC, the suspects were among three suspicious individuals sighted in a volatile area.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) It said while two were arrested, one suspect escaped and is currently at large. FFK gets Germany, Omokri Mexico as Tinubu posts ambassadors Boko Haram brags about killing soldiers, vows to turn Borno community to caliphateItems recovered from the suspects included a pistol (Serial No. 7886, Made in USA), a mobile phone, and drugs (Tramadol) with cigarettes.Speaking during the parade of the suspects on Friday in Ilọrin, the Kwara State Commandant, Commandant Bala Bawa Bodinga, reaffirmed the Command’s commitment to tackling criminal activities and safeguarding lives and property across the state.He said all efforts are being made to apprehend the remaining suspect.He warned individuals involved in crime to desist or face the full weight of the law, stressing that the Command will leave no stone unturned in apprehending offenders and ensuring the security of residents.Commandant Bodinga also urged the public to remain vigilant and continue providing credible information that could assist security agencies in maintaining peace.“The suspects will be charged to court upon completion of investigation or transferred to the appropriate security agency for further inquiry,” he added.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. firearmsKwaranabbedSuspected banditstramadol","published_at":"2026-03-06T17:40:16+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:54+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"b941043ce1efb26fd02d03b8b522142d410dfca0","text_fingerprint":"news suspected bandits nabbed with firearms tramadol in kwara by mumini abdulkareem ilorin fri 6 mar 2026 17 40 16 wat the kwara state command of the nigeria security and civil defence corps nscdc said it has arrested two suspected bandits during an intelligence led operation in saminaka community patigi local government area of kwara state the suspects abubakar jubril 28 and mohammed abubakar 26 were apprehended on tuesday march 3 2026 following sustained surveillance by operatives of the command according to the nscdc the suspects were among three suspicious individuals sighted in a volatile","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"d6559886b078d6f7","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/suspected-bandits-nabbed-with-firearms-tramadol-in-kwara/","title":"Suspected Bandits Nabbed With Firearms, Tramadol In Kwara - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) said it has arrested two suspected bandits during an intelligence-led","content_text":"--> News Suspected bandits nabbed with firearms, tramadol in Kwara By Mumini Abdulkareem, Ilorin Fri, 6 Mar 2026 17:40:16 WAT The Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) said it has arrested two suspected bandits during an intelligence-led operation in Saminaka Community, Patigi Local Government Area of Kwara State.The suspects, Abubakar Jubril, 28, and Mohammed Abubakar, 26, were apprehended on Tuesday, March 3, 2026, following sustained surveillance by operatives of the command. According to the NSCDC, the suspects were among three suspicious individuals sighted in a volatile area.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) It said while two were arrested, one suspect escaped and is currently at large. FFK gets Germany, Omokri Mexico as Tinubu posts ambassadors Boko Haram brags about killing soldiers, vows to turn Borno community to caliphateItems recovered from the suspects included a pistol (Serial No. 7886, Made in USA), a mobile phone, and drugs (Tramadol) with cigarettes.Speaking during the parade of the suspects on Friday in Ilọrin, the Kwara State Commandant, Commandant Bala Bawa Bodinga, reaffirmed the Command’s commitment to tackling criminal activities and safeguarding lives and property across the state.He said all efforts are being made to apprehend the remaining suspect.He warned individuals involved in crime to desist or face the full weight of the law, stressing that the Command will leave no stone unturned in apprehending offenders and ensuring the security of residents.Commandant Bodinga also urged the public to remain vigilant and continue providing credible information that could assist security agencies in maintaining peace.“The suspects will be charged to court upon completion of investigation or transferred to the appropriate security agency for further inquiry,” he added.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. firearmsKwaranabbedSuspected banditstramadol","published_at":"2026-03-06T17:40:16+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:54+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"b941043ce1efb26fd02d03b8b522142d410dfca0","text_fingerprint":"news suspected bandits nabbed with firearms tramadol in kwara by mumini abdulkareem ilorin fri 6 mar 2026 17 40 16 wat the kwara state command of the nigeria security and civil defence corps nscdc said it has arrested two suspected bandits during an intelligence led operation in saminaka community patigi local government area of kwara state the suspects abubakar jubril 28 and mohammed abubakar 26 were apprehended on tuesday march 3 2026 following sustained surveillance by operatives of the command according to the nscdc the suspects were among three suspicious individuals sighted in a volatile","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"8f5a15c113f7924f","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/one-killed-as-cult-groups-clash-at-kwara-market/","title":"One Killed As Cult Groups Clash At Kwara Market - Daily Trust","snippet":"At least one person was killed on Friday when suspected cultists clashed at the densely populated Ilorin Central Market, popularly known as Oja Oba, in","content_text":"--> News One killed as cult groups clash at Kwara Market By Mumini Abdulkareem, Ilorin Fri, 6 Mar 2026 16:41:39 WAT At least one person was killed on Friday when suspected cultists clashed at the densely populated Ilorin Central Market, popularly known as Oja Oba, in Ilorin, Kwara State.Witnesses said rival groups engaged in a daylight gun battle in the busy market, sending traders, motorists and passersby scrambling for safety. One of the suspects was reportedly killed during the clash.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) His body was later seen lying in a pool of blood with a gun beside him when our correspondent visited the scene. FFK gets Germany, Omokri Mexico as Tinubu posts ambassadors Boko Haram brags about killing soldiers, vows to turn Borno community to caliphateThe incident, which occurred a few minutes before noon, triggered panic among petty traders who had displayed their wares amid the heavy human and vehicular traffic that usually characterises commercial activities in the market.The sound of gunshots near the area where military and police operatives were stationed to enforce market setback regulations further heightened the panic.Within moments, the market, which had earlier been bustling with activity, descended into confusion as people fled in different directions to avoid being caught in the crossfire.Motorists and passersby heading toward Emir Road, Ita Ajia and the Gambari axis quickly made detours to escape the scene.Several traders were seen hurriedly packing their goods and running for safety, while others took cover inside nearby shops and enclosed stalls.Police operatives stationed in the market immediately moved in, pursuing some of the fleeing suspects.During the operation, one of the suspects, dressed in a white native attire and strapping a small fashion bag around his neck, was apprehended by the security operatives.He was subsequently whisked away to the C Division Police Station at Oja Oba.The identity of the deceased could not be immediately ascertained as of the time of filing this report Friday afternoon.Police officers later evacuated the body from the scene in a Hilux patrol vehicle.The Kwara State Police Public Relations Officer, Adetoun Ejire Adeyemi, confirmed the incident.She said an investigation into the clash had commenced and assured that those involved would be brought to justice.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. clashcult groupskilledKwara Market","published_at":"2026-03-06T16:41:39+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:55+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"45e28d075939bae641240902cccc1c364f3643c9","text_fingerprint":"news one killed as cult groups clash at kwara market by mumini abdulkareem ilorin fri 6 mar 2026 16 41 39 wat at least one person was killed on friday when suspected cultists clashed at the densely populated ilorin central market popularly known as oja oba in ilorin kwara state witnesses said rival groups engaged in a daylight gun battle in the busy market sending traders motorists and passersby scrambling for safety one of the suspects was reportedly killed during the clash sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid div vi 1716478739 innerhtml viapitag display pw 31466 ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"74ef5dfa1e5f1ddf","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/strategic-assessment-gcc-structural-vulnerability-drone-warfare-economics-and-the-resilience-of-the-petrodollar-system/","title":"Strategic Assessment: GCC Structural Vulnerability, Drone Warfare Economics, And The Resilience Of The Petrodollar System - Daily Trust","snippet":"By Tanimu Yakubu, DG, BOF","content_text":"--> Abuja Strategic Assessment: GCC Structural Vulnerability, Drone Warfare Economics, and the Resilience of the Petrodollar System Agricultural drones spray pesticides in a wheat field in Shuanglou village, Zhaoqiao township, Qiaocheng district, Bozhou, east China’s Anhui province, April 12, 2021. (Photo by Liu Qinli/People’s Daily Online) By . Fri, 6 Mar 2026 15:16:20 WAT By Tanimu Yakubu, DG, BOFThis paper evaluates the analytical claims that Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states are structurally fragile, that Iranian drone warfare can economically exhaust Gulf and United States defenses, and that resulting instability could precipitate the collapse of the petrodollar system. The assessment tests these claims through quantitative indicators of structural vulnerability, cost-exchange ratios in drone warfare, energy logistics sensitivity to Hormuz disruption, and the structural foundations of global dollar dominance. Structural Vulnerability Indicators of GCC StatesStateFood Import DependenceDesalinated Water SharePopulation (approx.)Sovereign Wealth AssetsSaudi Arabia70–80%~50%36 million~$900 billionUAE80–90%~42–50%10 million~$1.6 trillionQatar80–90%~60%3 million~$475 billionKuwait80–90%~60%4.3 million~$800 billionBahrain80–90%~88%1.5 million~$20 billionThese indicators confirm high import dependence and water vulnerability. However they also show extraordinary financial buffers which complicate predictions of rapid regime collapse.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Alleged money laundering: Court grants Malami, wife, son N200m bail each Thugs set ADC Secretariat ablaze as Amaechi arrives for registration Drone Warfare Economics: Cost-Exchange RatiosModern conflicts demonstrate that inexpensive drones can impose disproportionately high defensive costs. Weapon SystemEstimated Unit CostTypical UseShahed-type drone$35,000–$50,000Strike / loitering attackPatriot interceptor$1–3 millionMissile / aircraft interceptionTHAAD interceptor$10 million+Ballistic missile defenseIf a $40,000 drone forces the launch of a $2 million interceptor, the defender faces a cost exchange ratio of roughly 50:1. However electronic warfare, jamming, and cheaper interceptor technologies can significantly reduce this asymmetry over time. Strait of Hormuz Energy SensitivityIndicatorEstimateImplicationOil flows through Hormuz~20% of global consumptionCritical energy chokepointLNG trade through Hormuz~25–30% globallyMajor gas supply riskPrimary destinationAsia (China, India, Japan, Korea)Global supply chain exposureDisruption scenarios suggest oil prices could move rapidly depending on duration of blockage.Disruption DurationPossible Oil Price RangeShort disruption (days)$90–$110 per barrelMedium disruption (weeks)$110–$140 per barrelSevere disruption (months)$150+ per barrel Structural Foundations of Dollar DominanceIndicatorApproximate Global ShareGlobal FX reserves held in USD~58–60%Global trade invoiced in USD~50%Share of global SWIFT payments~40%+Foreign holdings of US securities~$35 trillionThese indicators suggest that the dollar’s dominance depends primarily on financial market depth, liquidity of US Treasury securities, and institutional credibility rather than exclusively on oil trade settlement. Strategic ConclusionThe vulnerabilities identified in Gulf economies are real but do not by themselves imply imminent political collapse. Drone warfare introduces new cost dynamics but is subject to rapid technological adaptation. Energy markets remain highly sensitive to Hormuz disruptions, but the global dollar system rests on deeper structural foundations than the recycling of Gulf oil revenues alone.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. droneGCC Structural VulnerabilityStrategic AssessmentWarfare Economics","published_at":"2026-03-06T15:16:20+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:34:57+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"25dd85f8fadb7d809b867461185238f0c00d3879","text_fingerprint":"abuja strategic assessment gcc structural vulnerability drone warfare economics and the resilience of the petrodollar system agricultural drones spray pesticides in a wheat field in shuanglou village zhaoqiao township qiaocheng district bozhou east china s anhui province april 12 2021 photo by liu qinli people s daily online by fri 6 mar 2026 15 16 20 wat by tanimu yakubu dg bofthis paper evaluates the analytical claims that gulf cooperation council gcc states are structurally fragile that iranian drone warfare can economically exhaust gulf and united states defenses and that resulting instabi","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"1a32635f604c1e7c","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/breaking-ffk-gets-germany-omokri-mexico-as-tinubu-posts-ambassadors/","title":"FFK Gets Germany, Omokri Mexico As Tinubu Posts Ambassadors - Daily Trust","snippet":"President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has approved the postings of 31 career and 34 non-career ambassadors to various countries and the United Nations.","content_text":"--> Top Story FFK gets Germany, Omokri Mexico as Tinubu posts ambassadors By Baba Martins Fri, 6 Mar 2026 15:10:30 WAT President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has approved the postings of 31 career and 34 non-career ambassadors to various countries and the United Nations.In the list which was released by Bayo Onanuga, Presidential spokesman, on Friday afternoon, a total of 65 ambassadors and High Commissioners were posted across the country. The Senate confirmed the ambassadors-designate last December last year.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmud Yakubu, was posted to Qatar, Femi Fani-Kayode was posted to Germany, while Reno Omokri was posted to Mexico. Boko Haram brags about killing soldiers, vows to turn Borno community to caliphate Alleged money laundering: Court grants Malami, wife, son N200m bail eachSenator Jimoh Ibrahin was posted to the United Nations; former Chief of Army Staff and Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Dambazau was posted to China, while ex-Governor Okezie Ikpeazu is the new ambassador to Spain.Below is the list:POSTINGS OF NON-CAREER AMBASSADORS / HIGH COMMISSIONERSS/N NAME MISSION APPROVED 1. SENATOR GRACE BENT: LOME-TOGO 2. SEN. ITA ENANG: SOUTH AFRICA 3. IKPEAZU VICTOR: SPAIN 4. NKECHI LINDA UFOCHUKWU: TEL-AVIV, ISRAEL 5. MAHMUD YAKUBU: QATAR 6. PAUL OGA ADIKWU: THE VATICAN CITY HOLY SEE 7. VICE ADMIRAL IBOK-ETE EKWE IBAS: THE PHILIPPINES 8. MR. RENO OMOKRI: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 9. HON. (ENGR.) ABASI BRAIMAH (FMHR): BUDAPEST, HUNGARY 10. MRS. ERELU ANGELA ADEBAYO: PORTUGAL 11. BARR. OLUMILUA OLUWAYIMIKA AYOTUNWA: TOKYO, JAPAN 12. RT. HON. UGWUANYI IFEANYI LAWRENCE: ATHENS, GREECE 13. BARR. CHIOMA PRISCILLA OHAKIM: WARSAW, POLAND 14. AMINU DALHATU: UNITED KINGDOM, UK 15. LT. GEN ABDULRAHMAN BELLO DAMBAZAU: BEIJING, CHINA 16. HON. TASIU MUSA MAIGARI: GAMBIA 17. OLUFEMI PEDRO: AUSTRALIA 18. BARR. MUHAMMED UBANDOMA ALIYU: ARGENTINA 19. LATEEF KAYODE ARE: USA 20. AMB. JOSEPH SOLA IJI: RUSSIA 21. SEN. JIMOH IBRAHIM: UN PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE 22. FEMI FANI KAYODE: GERMANY 23. PROF. ISAAK FOLORUNSO ADEWOLE: OTTAWA, CANADA 24. AJIMOBI FATIMA FLORENCE (F): AUSTRIA 25. MRS. LOLA AKANDE (F): SWEDEN 26. AYODELE OKE: FRANCE 27. YAKUBU N. GAMBO: SAUDI ARABIA 28. SENATOR PROF. NORA LADI DADUUT: SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA 29. BARR. ONUEZE CHUKWUJIKA JOE OKOCHA SAN: DUBLIN 30. DR. KULU HARUNA ABUBAKAR: TUNIS, TUNISIA 31. RT. HON. JERRY SAMUEL MANWE: PORT OF SPAIN, T&TPOSTINGS OF CAREER AMBASSADORS / HIGH COMMISSIONERS LISTS/N NAME MISSION APPROVED 1. AMB. NWABIOLA EZENWA CHUKWUMEKA: COTE D’IV/OIRE 2. BESTO MAIMUNA IBRAHIM: NIAMEY-NIGER 3. MONICA OKWUCHUKWU ENEBECHI: SAO TOME, STP 4. AMB. MOHAMMED MAHMUD LELE: ALGIERS-ALGERIA 5. ENDONI SYNDOPH PAEBI: OUAGADOUGOU-BURKINA FASO 6. AHMED MOHAMMED MONGUNO: CAIRO EGYPT 7. AMB.JANE ADAMS (NEE OKON) MICHAEL (F): KINGSTON-JAMAICA 8. AMB. CLARK-OMERU ALEXANDRA (F): LUSAKA-ZAMBIA 9. CHIMA GEOGGREY LIOMA DAVID: BAMAKO-MALI 10. AMB. ODUMAH YVONNE EHINOSEN: MALABO –E/GUINEA 11. AMB WASA SEGUN IGE: BEIRUT, LEBANON 12. RUBEN ABIMBOLA SAMUEL (F): ROME, ITALY 13. AMB.ONAGA OGECHUKWU KINGSLEY: MAPUTO, MOZAMBIQUE 14. AMB.MAGAJI UMAR: KINSASHA, DR CONGO 15. AMB.MUHAMMAD SAIDU DAHIRU: NEW DELHI-INDIA 16. AMB. ABDUSSALAM HABU ZAYYAD: DAKAR-SENEGAL 17. AMB SHEHU ILU BARDE: ACCRA GHANA 18. AMB.AMINU NASIR: ETHIOPIA 19. ABUBAKAR MUSA MUSA: N’DJAMENA, CHAD 20. AMB. HAIDARA MOHAMMED IDRIS: THE HAGUE-NETHERLANDS 21. AMB.BAKO ADAMU UMAR: RABAT-MOROCCO 22. AMB. SULU GAMBARI OLATUNJI AHMED: MALAYSIA 23. AMB.ROMATA MOHAMMED OMOBOLANLE (F): TANZANIA 24. AMB. SHAGA JOHN SHAMAH: BOTSWANA 25. SALAU, HAMZA MOHAMMED: TEHRAN, IRAN 26. AMB.IBRAHIM DANLAMI: KENYA 27. IBRAHIM ADEOLA MOPELOLA (F): COTONOU-BENIN 28. AMB.AYENI ADEBAYO EMMANUEL: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM 29. AMB.AKANDE WAHAB ADEKOLA: BERNE-SWITZERLAND 30. AMB. AREWA (NEE ADEDOKUN) ESTHER (F): WINDHOEK-NAMIBIA 31. AMB.GERGADI JOSEPH JOHN: LIBREVILLE-GABON 32. AMB. LUTHER OGBOMODE AYO-KALATA (F): SIERRA LEONE 33. DANLADI YAKUBU NYAKU : KHARTOUM-SUDAN 34. BELLO DOGON-DAJI HALIRU: BANGKOK, THAILANDThe statement added that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already received agreement from the United Kingdom for the High Commissioner-designate, Ambassador Aminu Dalhatu.Similarly, France has sent the agreement for Ambassador Ayo Oke.It added that the Ministry has also conveyed the nominations of the other 62 designated envoys to all the countries concerned, including a request for their agreements in line with standard diplomatic practice.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. AmbassadorsffkGermanyMahmood YakubuMexicoReno Omokri","published_at":"2026-03-06T15:10:30+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:01+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"bf6d8956772945ca6d55d32a96982012ff4503c4","text_fingerprint":"top story ffk gets germany omokri mexico as tinubu posts ambassadors by baba martins fri 6 mar 2026 15 10 30 wat president bola ahmed tinubu has approved the postings of 31 career and 34 non career ambassadors to various countries and the united nations in the list which was released by bayo onanuga presidential spokesman on friday afternoon a total of 65 ambassadors and high commissioners were posted across the country the senate confirmed the ambassadors designate last december last year sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid div vi 1716478739 innerhtml viapitag di","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"5ebfd38a175f053c","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/breaking-ffk-gets-germany-omokri-mexico-as-tinubu-posts-ambassadors/","title":"FFK Gets Germany, Omokri Mexico As Tinubu Posts Ambassadors - Daily Trust","snippet":"President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has approved the postings of 31 career and 34 non-career ambassadors to various countries and the United Nations.","content_text":"--> Top Story FFK gets Germany, Omokri Mexico as Tinubu posts ambassadors By Baba Martins Fri, 6 Mar 2026 15:10:30 WAT President Bola Ahmed Tinubu has approved the postings of 31 career and 34 non-career ambassadors to various countries and the United Nations.In the list which was released by Bayo Onanuga, Presidential spokesman, on Friday afternoon, a total of 65 ambassadors and High Commissioners were posted across the country. The Senate confirmed the ambassadors-designate last December last year.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmud Yakubu, was posted to Qatar, Femi Fani-Kayode was posted to Germany, while Reno Omokri was posted to Mexico. Boko Haram brags about killing soldiers, vows to turn Borno community to caliphate Alleged money laundering: Court grants Malami, wife, son N200m bail eachSenator Jimoh Ibrahin was posted to the United Nations; former Chief of Army Staff and Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Dambazau was posted to China, while ex-Governor Okezie Ikpeazu is the new ambassador to Spain.Below is the list:POSTINGS OF NON-CAREER AMBASSADORS / HIGH COMMISSIONERSS/N NAME MISSION APPROVED 1. SENATOR GRACE BENT: LOME-TOGO 2. SEN. ITA ENANG: SOUTH AFRICA 3. IKPEAZU VICTOR: SPAIN 4. NKECHI LINDA UFOCHUKWU: TEL-AVIV, ISRAEL 5. MAHMUD YAKUBU: QATAR 6. PAUL OGA ADIKWU: THE VATICAN CITY HOLY SEE 7. VICE ADMIRAL IBOK-ETE EKWE IBAS: THE PHILIPPINES 8. MR. RENO OMOKRI: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 9. HON. (ENGR.) ABASI BRAIMAH (FMHR): BUDAPEST, HUNGARY 10. MRS. ERELU ANGELA ADEBAYO: PORTUGAL 11. BARR. OLUMILUA OLUWAYIMIKA AYOTUNWA: TOKYO, JAPAN 12. RT. HON. UGWUANYI IFEANYI LAWRENCE: ATHENS, GREECE 13. BARR. CHIOMA PRISCILLA OHAKIM: WARSAW, POLAND 14. AMINU DALHATU: UNITED KINGDOM, UK 15. LT. GEN ABDULRAHMAN BELLO DAMBAZAU: BEIJING, CHINA 16. HON. TASIU MUSA MAIGARI: GAMBIA 17. OLUFEMI PEDRO: AUSTRALIA 18. BARR. MUHAMMED UBANDOMA ALIYU: ARGENTINA 19. LATEEF KAYODE ARE: USA 20. AMB. JOSEPH SOLA IJI: RUSSIA 21. SEN. JIMOH IBRAHIM: UN PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE 22. FEMI FANI KAYODE: GERMANY 23. PROF. ISAAK FOLORUNSO ADEWOLE: OTTAWA, CANADA 24. AJIMOBI FATIMA FLORENCE (F): AUSTRIA 25. MRS. LOLA AKANDE (F): SWEDEN 26. AYODELE OKE: FRANCE 27. YAKUBU N. GAMBO: SAUDI ARABIA 28. SENATOR PROF. NORA LADI DADUUT: SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA 29. BARR. ONUEZE CHUKWUJIKA JOE OKOCHA SAN: DUBLIN 30. DR. KULU HARUNA ABUBAKAR: TUNIS, TUNISIA 31. RT. HON. JERRY SAMUEL MANWE: PORT OF SPAIN, T&TPOSTINGS OF CAREER AMBASSADORS / HIGH COMMISSIONERS LISTS/N NAME MISSION APPROVED 1. AMB. NWABIOLA EZENWA CHUKWUMEKA: COTE D’IV/OIRE 2. BESTO MAIMUNA IBRAHIM: NIAMEY-NIGER 3. MONICA OKWUCHUKWU ENEBECHI: SAO TOME, STP 4. AMB. MOHAMMED MAHMUD LELE: ALGIERS-ALGERIA 5. ENDONI SYNDOPH PAEBI: OUAGADOUGOU-BURKINA FASO 6. AHMED MOHAMMED MONGUNO: CAIRO EGYPT 7. AMB.JANE ADAMS (NEE OKON) MICHAEL (F): KINGSTON-JAMAICA 8. AMB. CLARK-OMERU ALEXANDRA (F): LUSAKA-ZAMBIA 9. CHIMA GEOGGREY LIOMA DAVID: BAMAKO-MALI 10. AMB. ODUMAH YVONNE EHINOSEN: MALABO –E/GUINEA 11. AMB WASA SEGUN IGE: BEIRUT, LEBANON 12. RUBEN ABIMBOLA SAMUEL (F): ROME, ITALY 13. AMB.ONAGA OGECHUKWU KINGSLEY: MAPUTO, MOZAMBIQUE 14. AMB.MAGAJI UMAR: KINSASHA, DR CONGO 15. AMB.MUHAMMAD SAIDU DAHIRU: NEW DELHI-INDIA 16. AMB. ABDUSSALAM HABU ZAYYAD: DAKAR-SENEGAL 17. AMB SHEHU ILU BARDE: ACCRA GHANA 18. AMB.AMINU NASIR: ETHIOPIA 19. ABUBAKAR MUSA MUSA: N’DJAMENA, CHAD 20. AMB. HAIDARA MOHAMMED IDRIS: THE HAGUE-NETHERLANDS 21. AMB.BAKO ADAMU UMAR: RABAT-MOROCCO 22. AMB. SULU GAMBARI OLATUNJI AHMED: MALAYSIA 23. AMB.ROMATA MOHAMMED OMOBOLANLE (F): TANZANIA 24. AMB. SHAGA JOHN SHAMAH: BOTSWANA 25. SALAU, HAMZA MOHAMMED: TEHRAN, IRAN 26. AMB.IBRAHIM DANLAMI: KENYA 27. IBRAHIM ADEOLA MOPELOLA (F): COTONOU-BENIN 28. AMB.AYENI ADEBAYO EMMANUEL: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM 29. AMB.AKANDE WAHAB ADEKOLA: BERNE-SWITZERLAND 30. AMB. AREWA (NEE ADEDOKUN) ESTHER (F): WINDHOEK-NAMIBIA 31. AMB.GERGADI JOSEPH JOHN: LIBREVILLE-GABON 32. AMB. LUTHER OGBOMODE AYO-KALATA (F): SIERRA LEONE 33. DANLADI YAKUBU NYAKU : KHARTOUM-SUDAN 34. BELLO DOGON-DAJI HALIRU: BANGKOK, THAILANDThe statement added that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already received agreement from the United Kingdom for the High Commissioner-designate, Ambassador Aminu Dalhatu.Similarly, France has sent the agreement for Ambassador Ayo Oke.It added that the Ministry has also conveyed the nominations of the other 62 designated envoys to all the countries concerned, including a request for their agreements in line with standard diplomatic practice.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. AmbassadorsffkGermanyMahmood YakubuMexicoReno Omokri","published_at":"2026-03-06T15:10:30+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:01+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"bf6d8956772945ca6d55d32a96982012ff4503c4","text_fingerprint":"top story ffk gets germany omokri mexico as tinubu posts ambassadors by baba martins fri 6 mar 2026 15 10 30 wat president bola ahmed tinubu has approved the postings of 31 career and 34 non career ambassadors to various countries and the united nations in the list which was released by bayo onanuga presidential spokesman on friday afternoon a total of 65 ambassadors and high commissioners were posted across the country the senate confirmed the ambassadors designate last december last year sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid div vi 1716478739 innerhtml viapitag di","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"a7b653286b0b4eb8","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/boko-haram-brags-about-killing-soldiers-vows-to-turn-borno-community-to-caliphate/","title":"Boko Haram Brags About Killing Soldiers, Vows To Turn Borno Community To Caliphate - Daily Trust","snippet":"Boko Haram terrorists have claimed responsibility for the attack on the military base in Ngoshe, Gwoza LGA of Borno State, vowing to hold Eid-el-fitr at the","content_text":"--> News | Top Story Boko Haram brags about killing soldiers, vows to turn Borno community to caliphate By Hamisu Kabir Matazu Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:58:15 WAT Boko Haram terrorists have claimed responsibility for the attack on the military base in Ngoshe, Gwoza LGA of Borno State, vowing to hold Eid-el-fitr at the town’s central mosque, which it has since taken over.Daily Trust had reported how the terrorists invaded the town on Wednesday night after the Muslims broke their fast, killing soldiers and civilians, and abducting hundreds of residents. Sources revealed that, among those killed were the chief Iman and some elders of the community, while several homes and military base and equipment were burnt down.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) In a video circulating online, which Daily Trust reviewed on Friday, a group of five young men who introduced themselves as members of Jama’atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda’awati wal-Jihad under the leadership of Imam Ubu Umaima, claimed responsibility for the attack. BREAKING: FFK gets Germany, Omokri Mexico as Tinubu posts ambassadors Army kills kidnapper, rescues 4 Victims in EdoThe leader of the group, who spoke in Hausa, said soldiers were beheaded in the attack while vowing that they would change the name of the town to Daular Islam (Caliphate)“In the name of Allah, the most beneficial, and the most merciful. We thank God Almighty for helping us to succeed in our mission in Ngoshe. And as you can see today, 16/9/1447 (Thursday 6th March, 2026) we are inside the central mosque in Ngoshe.“People in this town are saying that we cannot conquer Ngoshe. With the help of God, we have already conquered the town and by the grace of God, we are going to stay in Ngoshe and change its name to a caliphate. And at the end of Ramadan, we will observe the Eid-el-Fitr prayer inside Ngoshe.“We have slaughtered them, abducted their women and children and enslaved them. They are our legal property to use as ordained by God.“We have conquered Ngoshe and will remain here, we are willing to die for this course. It’s our third day in this town and we will extend the fight and reclaim more places from here to Maiduguri, up to Abuja ” he said.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. boko haramBorno communitybragscaliphatekilling soldiers","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:58:15+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:03+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"455ee47a474e47d91ec0b7a567a5976b7f433dcd","text_fingerprint":"news top story boko haram brags about killing soldiers vows to turn borno community to caliphate by hamisu kabir matazu fri 6 mar 2026 14 58 15 wat boko haram terrorists have claimed responsibility for the attack on the military base in ngoshe gwoza lga of borno state vowing to hold eid el fitr at the town s central mosque which it has since taken over daily trust had reported how the terrorists invaded the town on wednesday night after the muslims broke their fast killing soldiers and civilians and abducting hundreds of residents sources revealed that among those killed were the chief iman an","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"3affddaba63ca85c","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/boko-haram-brags-about-killing-soldiers-vows-to-turn-borno-community-to-caliphate/","title":"Boko Haram Brags About Killing Soldiers, Vows To Turn Borno Community To Caliphate - Daily Trust","snippet":"Boko Haram terrorists have claimed responsibility for the attack on the military base in Ngoshe, Gwoza LGA of Borno State, vowing to hold Eid-el-fitr at the","content_text":"--> News | Top Story Boko Haram brags about killing soldiers, vows to turn Borno community to caliphate By Hamisu Kabir Matazu Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:58:15 WAT Boko Haram terrorists have claimed responsibility for the attack on the military base in Ngoshe, Gwoza LGA of Borno State, vowing to hold Eid-el-fitr at the town’s central mosque, which it has since taken over.Daily Trust had reported how the terrorists invaded the town on Wednesday night after the Muslims broke their fast, killing soldiers and civilians, and abducting hundreds of residents. Sources revealed that, among those killed were the chief Iman and some elders of the community, while several homes and military base and equipment were burnt down.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) In a video circulating online, which Daily Trust reviewed on Friday, a group of five young men who introduced themselves as members of Jama’atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda’awati wal-Jihad under the leadership of Imam Ubu Umaima, claimed responsibility for the attack. BREAKING: FFK gets Germany, Omokri Mexico as Tinubu posts ambassadors Army kills kidnapper, rescues 4 Victims in EdoThe leader of the group, who spoke in Hausa, said soldiers were beheaded in the attack while vowing that they would change the name of the town to Daular Islam (Caliphate)“In the name of Allah, the most beneficial, and the most merciful. We thank God Almighty for helping us to succeed in our mission in Ngoshe. And as you can see today, 16/9/1447 (Thursday 6th March, 2026) we are inside the central mosque in Ngoshe.“People in this town are saying that we cannot conquer Ngoshe. With the help of God, we have already conquered the town and by the grace of God, we are going to stay in Ngoshe and change its name to a caliphate. And at the end of Ramadan, we will observe the Eid-el-Fitr prayer inside Ngoshe.“We have slaughtered them, abducted their women and children and enslaved them. They are our legal property to use as ordained by God.“We have conquered Ngoshe and will remain here, we are willing to die for this course. It’s our third day in this town and we will extend the fight and reclaim more places from here to Maiduguri, up to Abuja ” he said.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. boko haramBorno communitybragscaliphatekilling soldiers","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:58:15+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:03+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"455ee47a474e47d91ec0b7a567a5976b7f433dcd","text_fingerprint":"news top story boko haram brags about killing soldiers vows to turn borno community to caliphate by hamisu kabir matazu fri 6 mar 2026 14 58 15 wat boko haram terrorists have claimed responsibility for the attack on the military base in ngoshe gwoza lga of borno state vowing to hold eid el fitr at the town s central mosque which it has since taken over daily trust had reported how the terrorists invaded the town on wednesday night after the muslims broke their fast killing soldiers and civilians and abducting hundreds of residents sources revealed that among those killed were the chief iman an","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"5ed94e838680fa6a","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/obi-how-many-more-lives-must-be-lost-before-action-is-taken/","title":"Obi: How Many More Lives Must Be Lost Before Action Is Taken? - Daily Trust","snippet":"Former Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the 2023 general elections, Peter Obi, has condemned the recent attack by terrorists in Borno State,","content_text":"--> News | Top Story Obi: How Many More Lives Must Be Lost Before Action Is Taken? Peter Obi By Rilwan Muhammad Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:48:56 WAT Former Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the 2023 general elections, Peter Obi, has condemned the recent attack by terrorists in Borno State, describing it as horrific and unacceptable.Daily Trust had reported how suspected Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists abducted more than 100 women and children in an attack on Ngoshe community in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State. The terrorists also killed the chief imam of the town, some community elders and soldiers during the assault, which occurred shortly after Muslims broke their fast on Wednesday.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Local and security sources said the terrorists first attacked a military base belonging to the 82 Division Task Force Battalion before invading the community and an Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp. Terrorists abduct over 100 women, children in Borno Kano dep gov: Garo, Takai, Falgore tipped as impeachment plot beginsReacting to the incident in a post on his X handle on Friday, Obi said the tragedy exposed what he described as “painful reality” which, according to him, many Nigerians are forced to endure.He questioned how many more lives must be lost before decisive action is taken to secure communities and protect citizens.“I watched several videos of this tragedy with deep horror. Once again we are confronted with the painful reality of the daily suffering that far too many Nigerians are forced to endure. This is unacceptable.“How long will Nigerians continue to bear the consequences of poor leadership and mismanagement? How many more lives must be lost before decisive action is taken to secure our communities, protect the vulnerable, and dismantle the structures of these insurgents?” he questioned.Obi, also former governor of Anambra State, accused politicians of remaining indifferent to the suffering of the people while terrorists continue to unleash attacks in many communities.“While Nigerians are slaughtered daily by terrorists, what is more troubling is that amid these daily killings, our political leaders are preoccupied with selfish schemings on how to steal, grab and run away with the next election cycle, and keep us in insecurity, poverty and underdevelopment.”He, however, expressed sympathy with families who lost their loved ones in the attack and communities displaced by the violence, warning that Nigerians cannot accept inaction.“To the families who have lost loved ones, to the children now displaced, and to the communities living in fear, I stand with you in grief and in resolve. Your pain is Nigeria’s pain. Your safety and dignity must be the priority of any government that claims to serve the people.“Nigeria deserves a leadership that values human life above all else. Our nation is stronger than the terror that threatens it. But we cannot remain silent, and we cannot accept inaction. We must act now, for today’s victims, for tomorrow’s children, and for the Nigeria we all deserve.” Obi added.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Bornokillingslostmore livesPeter Obi","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:48:56+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:05+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"eabf691ea01261a4630fd4c3e63c2bd9e8e1feac","text_fingerprint":"news top story obi how many more lives must be lost before action is taken peter obi by rilwan muhammad fri 6 mar 2026 14 48 56 wat former presidential candidate of the labour party lp in the 2023 general elections peter obi has condemned the recent attack by terrorists in borno state describing it as horrific and unacceptable daily trust had reported how suspected boko haram iswap terrorists abducted more than 100 women and children in an attack on ngoshe community in gwoza local government area of borno state the terrorists also killed the chief imam of the town some community elders and sol","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"a45c72334c64332b","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/obi-how-many-more-lives-must-be-lost-before-action-is-taken/","title":"Obi: How Many More Lives Must Be Lost Before Action Is Taken? - Daily Trust","snippet":"Former Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the 2023 general elections, Peter Obi, has condemned the recent attack by terrorists in Borno State,","content_text":"--> News | Top Story Obi: How Many More Lives Must Be Lost Before Action Is Taken? Peter Obi By Rilwan Muhammad Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:48:56 WAT Former Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the 2023 general elections, Peter Obi, has condemned the recent attack by terrorists in Borno State, describing it as horrific and unacceptable.Daily Trust had reported how suspected Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists abducted more than 100 women and children in an attack on Ngoshe community in Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State. The terrorists also killed the chief imam of the town, some community elders and soldiers during the assault, which occurred shortly after Muslims broke their fast on Wednesday.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Local and security sources said the terrorists first attacked a military base belonging to the 82 Division Task Force Battalion before invading the community and an Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp. Terrorists abduct over 100 women, children in Borno Kano dep gov: Garo, Takai, Falgore tipped as impeachment plot beginsReacting to the incident in a post on his X handle on Friday, Obi said the tragedy exposed what he described as “painful reality” which, according to him, many Nigerians are forced to endure.He questioned how many more lives must be lost before decisive action is taken to secure communities and protect citizens.“I watched several videos of this tragedy with deep horror. Once again we are confronted with the painful reality of the daily suffering that far too many Nigerians are forced to endure. This is unacceptable.“How long will Nigerians continue to bear the consequences of poor leadership and mismanagement? How many more lives must be lost before decisive action is taken to secure our communities, protect the vulnerable, and dismantle the structures of these insurgents?” he questioned.Obi, also former governor of Anambra State, accused politicians of remaining indifferent to the suffering of the people while terrorists continue to unleash attacks in many communities.“While Nigerians are slaughtered daily by terrorists, what is more troubling is that amid these daily killings, our political leaders are preoccupied with selfish schemings on how to steal, grab and run away with the next election cycle, and keep us in insecurity, poverty and underdevelopment.”He, however, expressed sympathy with families who lost their loved ones in the attack and communities displaced by the violence, warning that Nigerians cannot accept inaction.“To the families who have lost loved ones, to the children now displaced, and to the communities living in fear, I stand with you in grief and in resolve. Your pain is Nigeria’s pain. Your safety and dignity must be the priority of any government that claims to serve the people.“Nigeria deserves a leadership that values human life above all else. Our nation is stronger than the terror that threatens it. But we cannot remain silent, and we cannot accept inaction. We must act now, for today’s victims, for tomorrow’s children, and for the Nigeria we all deserve.” Obi added.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Bornokillingslostmore livesPeter Obi","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:48:56+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:05+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"eabf691ea01261a4630fd4c3e63c2bd9e8e1feac","text_fingerprint":"news top story obi how many more lives must be lost before action is taken peter obi by rilwan muhammad fri 6 mar 2026 14 48 56 wat former presidential candidate of the labour party lp in the 2023 general elections peter obi has condemned the recent attack by terrorists in borno state describing it as horrific and unacceptable daily trust had reported how suspected boko haram iswap terrorists abducted more than 100 women and children in an attack on ngoshe community in gwoza local government area of borno state the terrorists also killed the chief imam of the town some community elders and sol","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"e5f8b60b7103de24","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/alleged-money-laundering-court-grants-malami-wife-son-n200m-bail-each/","title":"Alleged Money Laundering: Court Grants Malami, Wife, Son N200m Bail Each - Daily Trust","snippet":"A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted bail of N200 million each to former Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, his wife Asabe Bashir, and","content_text":"--> News Alleged money laundering: Court grants Malami, wife, son N200m bail each Abubakar Malami By Daily Trust Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:44:04 WAT A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted bail of N200 million each to former Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, his wife Asabe Bashir, and their son Abdulaziz Malami over an alleged money laundering case.Justice Joyce Abdulmalik ordered that each defendant provide two sureties in like sum. One of the sureties must deposit title documents for property located in Abuja’s Maitama or Asokoro districts. The court also directed the defendants to surrender their international passports and remain in the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Service until they meet the bail conditions.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) The defendants were re-arraigned on a 16-count charge filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, which alleged they conspired to launder over N8.1 billion between 2015 and 2025 through bank accounts and companies linked to the Malami family. The anti-graft agency told the court that the funds were allegedly routed through firms including Metropolitan Auto Tech Limited and Meethaq Hotels Limited and used to acquire properties in Abuja, Kano and Kebbi states.At the hearing, the EFCC presented its first witness, David Ajoma, a compliance officer with Sterling Bank.Ajoma said the bank provided documents to the EFCC in 2025 regarding loan facilities granted to Rayham Hotel Limited.He told the court that the loan was backed by cash collateral from Metropolitan Autotech.However, under cross-examination, the witness said he was not the relationship manager for the accounts and could not explain the purpose of the transactions.Ajoma also stated that Malami’s name did not appear on the loan application documents and that none of the transactions reviewed originated from government accounts or violated regulations of the Central Bank of Nigeria.The case was adjourned for continuation of trial.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You.","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:44:04+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:07+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"af4fb837d0eb9707b987cd400303440ffae4c58e","text_fingerprint":"news alleged money laundering court grants malami wife son n200m bail each abubakar malami by daily trust fri 6 mar 2026 14 44 04 wat a federal high court in abuja has granted bail of n200 million each to former attorney general of the federation abubakar malami his wife asabe bashir and their son abdulaziz malami over an alleged money laundering case justice joyce abdulmalik ordered that each defendant provide two sureties in like sum one of the sureties must deposit title documents for property located in abuja s maitama or asokoro districts the court also directed the defendants to surrende","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"a6096317a672479e","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/alleged-money-laundering-court-grants-malami-wife-son-n200m-bail-each/","title":"Alleged Money Laundering: Court Grants Malami, Wife, Son N200m Bail Each - Daily Trust","snippet":"A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted bail of N200 million each to former Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, his wife Asabe Bashir, and","content_text":"--> News Alleged money laundering: Court grants Malami, wife, son N200m bail each Abubakar Malami By Daily Trust Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:44:04 WAT A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted bail of N200 million each to former Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, his wife Asabe Bashir, and their son Abdulaziz Malami over an alleged money laundering case.Justice Joyce Abdulmalik ordered that each defendant provide two sureties in like sum. One of the sureties must deposit title documents for property located in Abuja’s Maitama or Asokoro districts. The court also directed the defendants to surrender their international passports and remain in the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Service until they meet the bail conditions.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) The defendants were re-arraigned on a 16-count charge filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, which alleged they conspired to launder over N8.1 billion between 2015 and 2025 through bank accounts and companies linked to the Malami family. The anti-graft agency told the court that the funds were allegedly routed through firms including Metropolitan Auto Tech Limited and Meethaq Hotels Limited and used to acquire properties in Abuja, Kano and Kebbi states.At the hearing, the EFCC presented its first witness, David Ajoma, a compliance officer with Sterling Bank.Ajoma said the bank provided documents to the EFCC in 2025 regarding loan facilities granted to Rayham Hotel Limited.He told the court that the loan was backed by cash collateral from Metropolitan Autotech.However, under cross-examination, the witness said he was not the relationship manager for the accounts and could not explain the purpose of the transactions.Ajoma also stated that Malami’s name did not appear on the loan application documents and that none of the transactions reviewed originated from government accounts or violated regulations of the Central Bank of Nigeria.The case was adjourned for continuation of trial.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You.","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:44:04+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:07+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"af4fb837d0eb9707b987cd400303440ffae4c58e","text_fingerprint":"news alleged money laundering court grants malami wife son n200m bail each abubakar malami by daily trust fri 6 mar 2026 14 44 04 wat a federal high court in abuja has granted bail of n200 million each to former attorney general of the federation abubakar malami his wife asabe bashir and their son abdulaziz malami over an alleged money laundering case justice joyce abdulmalik ordered that each defendant provide two sureties in like sum one of the sureties must deposit title documents for property located in abuja s maitama or asokoro districts the court also directed the defendants to surrende","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"e35077eb94a16ce9","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/minor-allegedly-kills-guardian-after-failed-attempts-in-kwara/","title":"Minor Allegedly Kills Guardian After Failed Attempts In Kwara - Daily Trust","snippet":"Police in Kwara State have arrested a 15-year-old boy, Gobri Yusuf, for allegedly killing his guardian, identified as Mrs Akanbi, in Ilorin.","content_text":"--> News Minor allegedly kills guardian after failed attempts in Kwara By Mumini AbdulKareem, Ilorin Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:40:48 WAT Police in Kwara State have arrested a 15-year-old boy, Gobri Yusuf, for allegedly killing his guardian, identified as Mrs Akanbi, in Ilorin.The victim, said to be the elder sister of the suspect’s late mother, was reportedly attacked and killed in her residence. Police said the teenager, who lived with the deceased, allegedly assaulted her with household items including a frying pan, a weighing scale, a spatula and kitchen knives.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Confirming the incident on Friday in Ilorin, the Kwara State Commissioner of Police, Adekimi Ojo, described the case as tragic and disturbing, noting that he personally interrogated the suspect during the investigation. According to him, preliminary findings indicated that the boy had earlier made two unsuccessful attempts to poison the deceased by allegedly putting insecticide, commonly known as “sniper,” in her soup and watermelon.“The suspect had earlier attempted to poison the deceased on two occasions by putting insecticide in her soup and watermelon, but the attempts failed,” the commissioner said.Ojo added that the suspect initially claimed another person was involved in the attack but later confessed to carrying it out alone.The police chief explained that shortly before the incident, the deceased had sent the boy on an errand to buy petrol and other items.He said the suspect returned with the petrol, poured it into the electricity generator and switched it on while the woman was bathing, apparently to create noise that could mask the attack.Investigations revealed that the teenager allegedly hid behind a door and attacked the woman with household items.“At that moment, she reportedly said in Yoruba, ‘Iwo ko lo ye ki o pa mi o,’ meaning ‘You are not the one who should have killed me,’” Ojo said.Police said the suspect later changed his clothes and left the house under the pretext of completing an errand. He reportedly contacted the deceased’s husband, who returned home and found her lying in a pool of blood.The commissioner said the suspect admitted during interrogation that he acted out of resentment, claiming the woman often scolded him for his behaviour.He added that police received a distress report about the incident on January 14 at about 8:30 p.m., after which officers commenced an investigation.The suspect remains in custody and will be charged to court after the investigation is concluded.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You.","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:40:48+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:09+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"a6c000aca0da7b86cfa0e11cd465a4f28e032c27","text_fingerprint":"news minor allegedly kills guardian after failed attempts in kwara by mumini abdulkareem ilorin fri 6 mar 2026 14 40 48 wat police in kwara state have arrested a 15 year old boy gobri yusuf for allegedly killing his guardian identified as mrs akanbi in ilorin the victim said to be the elder sister of the suspect s late mother was reportedly attacked and killed in her residence police said the teenager who lived with the deceased allegedly assaulted her with household items including a frying pan a weighing scale a spatula and kitchen knives sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document ge","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"bf6caf66e9be45fe","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/minor-allegedly-kills-guardian-after-failed-attempts-in-kwara/","title":"Minor Allegedly Kills Guardian After Failed Attempts In Kwara - Daily Trust","snippet":"Police in Kwara State have arrested a 15-year-old boy, Gobri Yusuf, for allegedly killing his guardian, identified as Mrs Akanbi, in Ilorin.","content_text":"--> News Minor allegedly kills guardian after failed attempts in Kwara By Mumini AbdulKareem, Ilorin Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:40:48 WAT Police in Kwara State have arrested a 15-year-old boy, Gobri Yusuf, for allegedly killing his guardian, identified as Mrs Akanbi, in Ilorin.The victim, said to be the elder sister of the suspect’s late mother, was reportedly attacked and killed in her residence. Police said the teenager, who lived with the deceased, allegedly assaulted her with household items including a frying pan, a weighing scale, a spatula and kitchen knives.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Confirming the incident on Friday in Ilorin, the Kwara State Commissioner of Police, Adekimi Ojo, described the case as tragic and disturbing, noting that he personally interrogated the suspect during the investigation. According to him, preliminary findings indicated that the boy had earlier made two unsuccessful attempts to poison the deceased by allegedly putting insecticide, commonly known as “sniper,” in her soup and watermelon.“The suspect had earlier attempted to poison the deceased on two occasions by putting insecticide in her soup and watermelon, but the attempts failed,” the commissioner said.Ojo added that the suspect initially claimed another person was involved in the attack but later confessed to carrying it out alone.The police chief explained that shortly before the incident, the deceased had sent the boy on an errand to buy petrol and other items.He said the suspect returned with the petrol, poured it into the electricity generator and switched it on while the woman was bathing, apparently to create noise that could mask the attack.Investigations revealed that the teenager allegedly hid behind a door and attacked the woman with household items.“At that moment, she reportedly said in Yoruba, ‘Iwo ko lo ye ki o pa mi o,’ meaning ‘You are not the one who should have killed me,’” Ojo said.Police said the suspect later changed his clothes and left the house under the pretext of completing an errand. He reportedly contacted the deceased’s husband, who returned home and found her lying in a pool of blood.The commissioner said the suspect admitted during interrogation that he acted out of resentment, claiming the woman often scolded him for his behaviour.He added that police received a distress report about the incident on January 14 at about 8:30 p.m., after which officers commenced an investigation.The suspect remains in custody and will be charged to court after the investigation is concluded.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You.","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:40:48+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:09+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"a6c000aca0da7b86cfa0e11cd465a4f28e032c27","text_fingerprint":"news minor allegedly kills guardian after failed attempts in kwara by mumini abdulkareem ilorin fri 6 mar 2026 14 40 48 wat police in kwara state have arrested a 15 year old boy gobri yusuf for allegedly killing his guardian identified as mrs akanbi in ilorin the victim said to be the elder sister of the suspect s late mother was reportedly attacked and killed in her residence police said the teenager who lived with the deceased allegedly assaulted her with household items including a frying pan a weighing scale a spatula and kitchen knives sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document ge","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"210bab0ed4625e10","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/thugs-set-adc-secretariat-ablaze-as-amaechi-arrives-for-registration/","title":"Thugs Set ADC Secretariat Ablaze As Amaechi Arrives For Registration - Daily Trust","snippet":"Suspected political thugs have set the African Democratic Congress (ADC) secretariat ablaze in Ubima Community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State.","content_text":"--> News | Top Story Thugs set ADC Secretariat ablaze as Amaechi arrives for registration By Bassey Willie Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:39:11 WAT Suspected political thugs have set the African Democratic Congress (ADC) secretariat ablaze in Ubima Community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State.The incident occurred on Thursday night, ahead of the visit of the former Governor of Rivers State and Immediate past Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Ameachi. Ameachi has already arrived at the Port Harcourt International Airport, heading to Ubima, his community to validate his party’s registration.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) The political thugs were also said to have attacked the minister’s community with heavy firepower, shooting sporadically in the area. Terrorists abduct over 100 women, children in Borno Tinubu’s economic reforms yielding measurable results – ministerAmaechi is one of the leaders of the coalition ADC working to wrestle power from President Bola Tinubu in 2027.It was gathered that the thugs invaded the community, fired heavily and set the party secretariat on fire.The thugs reportedly reappeared on Friday morning and mounted a roadblock on the Omuawa-Ubima Road, stopping every bus with an ADC banner from entering Ubima.Residents told newsmen that the intervention from security operatives mobilised to the area restored normalcy as thugs were chased away.Police spokesperson in Rivers State, CSP Grace Iringe-Koko, did not respond to text messages and calls placed her phone to confirm the incident.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. ADC SecretariatRiversThugs","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:39:11+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:10+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"54ee2c496e05f3f67cb52198b7c93a99a73a4a32","text_fingerprint":"news top story thugs set adc secretariat ablaze as amaechi arrives for registration by bassey willie fri 6 mar 2026 14 39 11 wat suspected political thugs have set the african democratic congress adc secretariat ablaze in ubima community ikwerre local government area of rivers state the incident occurred on thursday night ahead of the visit of the former governor of rivers state and immediate past minister of transportation chibuike ameachi ameachi has already arrived at the port harcourt international airport heading to ubima his community to validate his party s registration sponsor ad viapi","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"4fd460230f1c247c","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/thugs-set-adc-secretariat-ablaze-as-amaechi-arrives-for-registration/","title":"Thugs Set ADC Secretariat Ablaze As Amaechi Arrives For Registration - Daily Trust","snippet":"Suspected political thugs have set the African Democratic Congress (ADC) secretariat ablaze in Ubima Community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State.","content_text":"--> News | Top Story Thugs set ADC Secretariat ablaze as Amaechi arrives for registration By Bassey Willie Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:39:11 WAT Suspected political thugs have set the African Democratic Congress (ADC) secretariat ablaze in Ubima Community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State.The incident occurred on Thursday night, ahead of the visit of the former Governor of Rivers State and Immediate past Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Ameachi. Ameachi has already arrived at the Port Harcourt International Airport, heading to Ubima, his community to validate his party’s registration.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) The political thugs were also said to have attacked the minister’s community with heavy firepower, shooting sporadically in the area. Terrorists abduct over 100 women, children in Borno Tinubu’s economic reforms yielding measurable results – ministerAmaechi is one of the leaders of the coalition ADC working to wrestle power from President Bola Tinubu in 2027.It was gathered that the thugs invaded the community, fired heavily and set the party secretariat on fire.The thugs reportedly reappeared on Friday morning and mounted a roadblock on the Omuawa-Ubima Road, stopping every bus with an ADC banner from entering Ubima.Residents told newsmen that the intervention from security operatives mobilised to the area restored normalcy as thugs were chased away.Police spokesperson in Rivers State, CSP Grace Iringe-Koko, did not respond to text messages and calls placed her phone to confirm the incident.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. ADC SecretariatRiversThugs","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:39:11+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:10+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"54ee2c496e05f3f67cb52198b7c93a99a73a4a32","text_fingerprint":"news top story thugs set adc secretariat ablaze as amaechi arrives for registration by bassey willie fri 6 mar 2026 14 39 11 wat suspected political thugs have set the african democratic congress adc secretariat ablaze in ubima community ikwerre local government area of rivers state the incident occurred on thursday night ahead of the visit of the former governor of rivers state and immediate past minister of transportation chibuike ameachi ameachi has already arrived at the port harcourt international airport heading to ubima his community to validate his party s registration sponsor ad viapi","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"7457b5c7c25ec827","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/army-kills-kidnapper-rescues-4-victims-in-edo/","title":"Army Kills Kidnapper, Rescues 4 Victims In Edo - Daily Trust","snippet":"Operatives of the 4 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Benin City, in collaboration with Edo State Security Corps (ESSC), have neutralised a suspected kidnapper","content_text":"--> News Army kills kidnapper, rescues 4 Victims in Edo FILE PHOTO. Nigerian soldiers By Usman A. Bello Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:34:42 WAT Operatives of the 4 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Benin City, in collaboration with Edo State Security Corps (ESSC), have neutralised a suspected kidnapper and rescued four victims in Warake Forest, Owan East Local Government of the State.The troops also arrested a suspected kidnapper, identified as Omogbegha Solomon, 39, in a separate raid on a house in Ujemen, Esan West Local Government Area, suspected to be a kidnappers’ hideout. The Assistant Director of Army Public Relations for 4 Brigade, Captain Kennedy Anyanwu, stated that the victims were rescued during the Operation IGBO DANU night patrol in Warake Forest in the State.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) According to him, the suspected kidnapper was neutralised in a gun battle with the troops during the operation, forcing the remaining suspects to abandon their victims and flee into the bush. Kano dep gov: Garo, Takai, Falgore tipped as impeachment plot begins Unprepared leaders are Africa’s problem – ObasanjoHe said the rescued victims included Stella Abbas, 29; Tina Ododa, 19; Razak Rashid, 27; and Mutanibi Kalifa, 16.He added that the victims had been reunited with their families.He explained that during a raid on the arrested suspect’s house, the troops discovered a shrine containing charms and photographs of various individuals in an abandoned room within the compound.He said the shrine was destroyed while the suspect was handed over to the police for further investigation and prosecution. UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. ArmyEdoKidnappervictims","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:34:42+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:14+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"783eafce7e04f5934fc349ff074c11aefffeec46","text_fingerprint":"news army kills kidnapper rescues 4 victims in edo file photo nigerian soldiers by usman a bello fri 6 mar 2026 14 34 42 wat operatives of the 4 brigade of the nigerian army benin city in collaboration with edo state security corps essc have neutralised a suspected kidnapper and rescued four victims in warake forest owan east local government of the state the troops also arrested a suspected kidnapper identified as omogbegha solomon 39 in a separate raid on a house in ujemen esan west local government area suspected to be a kidnappers hideout the assistant director of army public relations for","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"8cee3e3afd192232","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/army-kills-kidnapper-rescues-4-victims-in-edo/","title":"Army Kills Kidnapper, Rescues 4 Victims In Edo - Daily Trust","snippet":"Operatives of the 4 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Benin City, in collaboration with Edo State Security Corps (ESSC), have neutralised a suspected kidnapper","content_text":"--> News Army kills kidnapper, rescues 4 Victims in Edo FILE PHOTO. Nigerian soldiers By Usman A. Bello Fri, 6 Mar 2026 14:34:42 WAT Operatives of the 4 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Benin City, in collaboration with Edo State Security Corps (ESSC), have neutralised a suspected kidnapper and rescued four victims in Warake Forest, Owan East Local Government of the State.The troops also arrested a suspected kidnapper, identified as Omogbegha Solomon, 39, in a separate raid on a house in Ujemen, Esan West Local Government Area, suspected to be a kidnappers’ hideout. The Assistant Director of Army Public Relations for 4 Brigade, Captain Kennedy Anyanwu, stated that the victims were rescued during the Operation IGBO DANU night patrol in Warake Forest in the State.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) According to him, the suspected kidnapper was neutralised in a gun battle with the troops during the operation, forcing the remaining suspects to abandon their victims and flee into the bush. Kano dep gov: Garo, Takai, Falgore tipped as impeachment plot begins Unprepared leaders are Africa’s problem – ObasanjoHe said the rescued victims included Stella Abbas, 29; Tina Ododa, 19; Razak Rashid, 27; and Mutanibi Kalifa, 16.He added that the victims had been reunited with their families.He explained that during a raid on the arrested suspect’s house, the troops discovered a shrine containing charms and photographs of various individuals in an abandoned room within the compound.He said the shrine was destroyed while the suspect was handed over to the police for further investigation and prosecution. UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. ArmyEdoKidnappervictims","published_at":"2026-03-06T14:34:42+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-06T18:35:14+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"783eafce7e04f5934fc349ff074c11aefffeec46","text_fingerprint":"news army kills kidnapper rescues 4 victims in edo file photo nigerian soldiers by usman a bello fri 6 mar 2026 14 34 42 wat operatives of the 4 brigade of the nigerian army benin city in collaboration with edo state security corps essc have neutralised a suspected kidnapper and rescued four victims in warake forest owan east local government of the state the troops also arrested a suspected kidnapper identified as omogbegha solomon 39 in a separate raid on a house in ujemen esan west local government area suspected to be a kidnappers hideout the assistant director of army public relations for","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"811f2f65303bda78","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/vandals-arrested-with-stolen-electric-cables-in-nasarawa/","title":"Vandals Arrested With Stolen Electric Cables In Nasarawa - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Nasarawa State Police Command has arrested two suspects over alleged theft and vandalisation of electric cables and poles in the state.","content_text":"--> News Vandals Arrested With Stolen Electric Cables in Nasarawa nigeria police force By From Abubakar Abdullahi, Lafia Sat, 7 Mar 2026 15:14:06 WAT The Nasarawa State Police Command has arrested two suspects over alleged theft and vandalisation of electric cables and poles in the state.The suspects, Chigozie Igbokwe, 41, and Emmanuel John, 45, were apprehended along the Gitata-Gunduma Road with stolen cables and tools allegedly used for the crime. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, SP Ramhan Nansel, disclosed this in a statement issued in Lafia.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) He said the suspects were arrested by a patrol team attached to the Gitata Division during a routine patrol. Death toll in Benue LGA attacks rises to 24 Petrol hits ₦1,080 per litre in Lagos“On March 6, 2026, at about 5:40am, a patrol team attached to the Gitata Division, while on routine patrol along the Gitata–Gunduma Road, apprehended two suspects in connection with the vandalisation of electric cables and poles,” he said.Nansel added that items recovered from the suspects include stolen electric cables, iron cutters and a Hyundai Sonata car allegedly used to carry out the operation.He said the Commissioner of Police in the state, Shettima Jauro Mohammed, has directed that the case be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) in Lafia for discreet investigation and prosecution.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. electric cablesNasarawaPolicevandals","published_at":"2026-03-07T15:14:06+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-07T17:24:50+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"493ef1ec6bc807e186a953ca43feed191436842d","text_fingerprint":"news vandals arrested with stolen electric cables in nasarawa nigeria police force by from abubakar abdullahi lafia sat 7 mar 2026 15 14 06 wat the nasarawa state police command has arrested two suspects over alleged theft and vandalisation of electric cables and poles in the state the suspects chigozie igbokwe 41 and emmanuel john 45 were apprehended along the gitata gunduma road with stolen cables and tools allegedly used for the crime the police public relations officer in the state sp ramhan nansel disclosed this in a statement issued in lafia sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else docu","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"be2b86ad22ede2fb","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/uba-sani-to-journalists-beware-of-latter-day-activists/","title":"Uba Sani To Journalists: Beware Of Latter-Day Activists - Daily Trust","snippet":"Governor Uba Sani of Kaduna State has said that Nigeria is under the threat of politicians who are bent on scuttling democracy if Government’s decisions and","content_text":"--> News Uba Sani To Journalists: Beware Of Latter-Day Activists By Daily Trust Sat, 7 Mar 2026 13:25:26 WAT Governor Uba Sani of Kaduna State has said that Nigeria is under the threat of politicians who are bent on scuttling democracy if Government’s decisions and policy outcomes are not in their favour.The Governor who sounded the alarm on Thursday after breaking the Ramadan fast with journalists at Sir Kashim Ibrahim House, alerted them on the activities of these politicians that he referred to ‘’latter day activists.’’ He pointed out that journalists fought for democracy more than any group of professionals in Nigeria, so they should not allow what the sacrificed for to be truncated by anti-democratic forces.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Governor Uba Sani recalled that ‘’when we were in the struggle, we the Civil Rights activists, relied mostly on journalists. Most of them lost their freedoms. Some of them lost their lives when we were fighting for democracy.’’ Death toll in Benue LGA attacks rises to 24 Gunmen attack Amaechi’s convoy, raze ADC secretariat in RiversAccording to him, Nigerians can not ‘’talk of democracy today without the contribution of journalists. So, you have to be vigilant about these category of politicians who are conflict merchants.’’The Governor pointed out that these politicians do not focus on issues of development like healthcare, education, human capital and infrastructural development or unemployment and poverty.‘’Rather, they dwell on ethnicity and religion which divide the country. When campaigns begin, they will focus on these issues instead of focusing on matters that affect all Nigerians irrespective of ethno-religious affiliations,’’ he warned.Governor Uba Sani recalled that many of these emergency activists were anti-democratic forces who ‘’were not with us in the struggle but today, I’m surprised that they are the latter day activists.’’He disclosed that ‘’when we were fighting for democracy, they were partnering with military dictators. Today, from nowhere, they are trying to teach us democracy.’’The Governor argued that these politicians do not actually care about the plight of the downtrodden as Nigerians can not easily forget because ‘’we know what they did just yesterday.’’Posing rhetorical questions, he asked that ‘’what do they know about fundamental human rights? What do they know about freedom? What do they know about the rule of law? What do they know about equality? What do they know about justice?’’According to Governor Uba Sani, these are the questions that journalists should ask these so called activists, adding that they should hold them to their pasts.He said that based on available data, there were 12 local governments in Kaduna State that did not have a single kilometre of road in 10 years before the coming of this administration.The Governor however said that his administration has taken development to all 23 local governments in the last two and half years, in line with equity and justice.‘’Out of 32 secondary hospitals that we have in Kaduna State, only five were equipped and functional when we came in. Today, we are renovating, equipping and remodelling 15 out of the 32,’’ he said.‘’We had about 580,000 out-of-school-children in Kaduna State according to the National Bureau of Statistics. We have reduced the number to 182,000. Together with Kuwait Development Fund, Islamic Development Bank, UNICEF and other Development Partners, we will build additional 102 schools,’’ he disclosed.According to the Governor, Kaduna State is the only subnational that has so far benefitted from this funding of $62.8 million to address the issue of out-of-school children ‘’because we are running a transparent government.’’‘’Our focus is to leave no child outside the classroom in Kaduna State because we believe that education is the greatest leveller that is why we have to give education to the children of the poor,’’ he added.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Bewarejournalistskadunalatter-Day ActivistsUba Sani","published_at":"2026-03-07T13:25:26+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-07T17:24:53+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"7b252a6af60f361cb0cd17b4f63defab27028d8e","text_fingerprint":"news uba sani to journalists beware of latter day activists by daily trust sat 7 mar 2026 13 25 26 wat governor uba sani of kaduna state has said that nigeria is under the threat of politicians who are bent on scuttling democracy if government s decisions and policy outcomes are not in their favour the governor who sounded the alarm on thursday after breaking the ramadan fast with journalists at sir kashim ibrahim house alerted them on the activities of these politicians that he referred to latter day activists he pointed out that journalists fought for democracy more than any group of profess","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"cf995433addf2795","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/death-toll-in-benue-lga-attacks-rises-to-24/","title":"Death Toll In Benue LGA Attacks Rises To 24 - Daily Trust","snippet":"The death toll from the latest attacks on communities in Turan, Jato-Aka district of Kwande Local Government Area of Benue State has risen to 24 following the","content_text":"--> News Death toll in Benue LGA attacks rises to 24 By Hope Abah Sat, 7 Mar 2026 13:10:52 WAT The death toll from the latest attacks on communities in Turan, Jato-Aka district of Kwande Local Government Area of Benue State has risen to 24 following the recovery of additional bodies on Saturday morning.Residents said the attacks, carried out by suspected armed invaders on Thursday, targeted Mbaav community in Mbadura Council Ward and several settlements in Yaav Council Ward of Kwande LGA. Our correspondent reports that the initial casualty figure stood at 16 after separate morning and night attacks on the affected communities.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) However, a former Supervisory Councillor of Kwande LGA, Akerigba Lawrence, said more bodies were later discovered during search operations. “Some bodies were thrown into the river. One was recovered this morning, bringing the total number of those killed to 24,” he said.Lawrence identified those killed in Mbaav community in Mbadura Council Ward as Ushahemba Kaun, Assue Pever, Ijir Iorlu, Tyowase Terkimbi, Iorbee Tyoor, Iorkase Iber, Kungwa Adaa, Tyavbee Gbanger and Aondoakula Ankaa.Victims from communities in Yaav Council Ward were listed as Shagba Tyokase, Shagba Terese, Liambee Yohanen, Tordue Dooshima, Tordue Doover, Liambee Aondosoo, Azezamber Gyuse and Terundu Tyozur, while several others are yet to be identified as search efforts continue.Six persons who sustained injuries during the attacks are currently receiving treatment at a nearby health facility.Residents said local search teams were still combing surrounding bushes and river banks amid fears that more casualties could be discovered.The killings have drawn condemnation from the state chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Austin Agada, who in a statement issued by his publicity secretary, Morgan Ihomun, described the attacks as barbaric and called on security agencies to apprehend the perpetrators.Also reacting, Benue State Governor Hyacinth Alia condemned the killings, describing them as senseless and unacceptable.The governor extended condolences to the families of the victims and assured residents of Kwande that his administration would intensify security operations to bring those responsible to justice and restore peace in the area.Alia noted that over 400 security personnel had recently been deployed to Jato-Aka and surrounding communities, but acknowledged that further measures were necessary to end the recurring attacks.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. 24Benue LGA attacksdeath toll","published_at":"2026-03-07T13:10:52+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-07T17:24:56+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"645718969ad69ab84b7166ee82c4ab937d722e45","text_fingerprint":"news death toll in benue lga attacks rises to 24 by hope abah sat 7 mar 2026 13 10 52 wat the death toll from the latest attacks on communities in turan jato aka district of kwande local government area of benue state has risen to 24 following the recovery of additional bodies on saturday morning residents said the attacks carried out by suspected armed invaders on thursday targeted mbaav community in mbadura council ward and several settlements in yaav council ward of kwande lga our correspondent reports that the initial casualty figure stood at 16 after separate morning and night attacks on ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"5165a320bd379782","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/petrol-hits-%e2%82%a61080-per-litre-in-lagos/","title":"Petrol Hits ₦1,080 Per Litre In Lagos - Daily Trust","snippet":"Petrol prices have surged to about ₦1,080 per litre in parts of Lagos amid ongoing tensions in the Middle East that have pushed crude oil prices higher in the","content_text":"--> News | Top Story Petrol hits ₦1,080 per litre in Lagos Petrol Pump By Abdullateef Aliyu Sat, 7 Mar 2026 11:20:26 WAT Petrol prices have surged to about ₦1,080 per litre in parts of Lagos amid ongoing tensions in the Middle East that have pushed crude oil prices higher in the international market.A market survey across several filling stations in Lagos on Saturday showed that the price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), popularly known as petrol, now ranges between ₦1,020 and ₦1,080 per litre, depending on the location and the filling station. The latest increase follows a recent adjustment in the ex-depot price of petrol by the Dangote Refinery, which determines the rate at which fuel marketers purchase the product before selling it to consumers at the pump.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Daily Trust gathered that the refinery recently raised its ex-depot price to ₦995 per litre from ₦874 in response to rising crude oil prices on the global market. As of the time of filing this report, Brent crude was trading at about $92.69 per barrel amid growing concerns over possible supply disruptions linked to escalating tensions in the Middle East.The spike in global oil prices has been attributed to hostilities involving the United States, Israel and Iran, which analysts say could further tighten global oil supply.Energy analysts warn that if the upward trend in crude prices continues, petrol prices in Nigeria could rise further, potentially approaching ₦1,100 per litre.Meanwhile, checks by our correspondent showed that several filling stations have already adjusted pump prices to reflect the new pricing structure.Reports from Ibadan also indicated that petrol was selling for as high as ₦1,200 per litre in some areas.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. LagosMiddle Eastpetrol","published_at":"2026-03-07T11:20:26+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-07T17:25:07+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"8cf832241785146d852b6886c0a5adc37f2df668","text_fingerprint":"news top story petrol hits 1 080 per litre in lagos petrol pump by abdullateef aliyu sat 7 mar 2026 11 20 26 wat petrol prices have surged to about 1 080 per litre in parts of lagos amid ongoing tensions in the middle east that have pushed crude oil prices higher in the international market a market survey across several filling stations in lagos on saturday showed that the price of premium motor spirit pms popularly known as petrol now ranges between 1 020 and 1 080 per litre depending on the location and the filling station the latest increase follows a recent adjustment in the ex depot pric","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"249814ad17eaff50","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/gunmen-attack-amaechis-convoy-raze-adc-secretariat-in-rivers/","title":"Gunmen Attack Amaechi’s Convoy, Raze ADC Secretariat In Rivers - Daily Trust","snippet":"Gunmen suspected to be political thugs on Friday attacked the convoy of a chieftain of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Chibuike Amaechi in Rivers State.","content_text":"--> News Gunmen attack Amaechi’s convoy, raze ADC secretariat in Rivers By Bassey Willie, Port Harcourt Sat, 7 Mar 2026 8:40:03 WAT Gunmen suspected to be political thugs on Friday attacked the convoy of a chieftain of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Chibuike Amaechi in Rivers State.The gunmen attacked the convoy of Amaechi between his community, Ubima, and Omuanwa in the Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State. The former minister was in his hometown for e-registration as a member of the ADC.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Before Amaechi arrived in his community around 12:15pm on Friday, some suspected thugs had already mounted a roadblock, turning back every bus identified as carrying ADC members attending the visit. Death toll in Benue LGA attacks rises to 24 Petrol hits ₦1,080 per litre in LagosResidents told newsmen that the prompt intervention from security operatives mobilised to the area, restored normalcy and chased the hoodlums away.Earlier some hoodlums suspected to be political thugs have set ablaze the African Democratic Congress (ADC) secretariat in Ubima community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State.This happened on Thursday night ahead of the visit of a former governor of the state and immediate past Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi to validate his registration with the party.The political thugs were also said to have attacked the minister’s community with heavy firepower, shooting sporadically in the area.Amaechi, who condemned the attack, thanked the security agencies for their prompt intervention.He said the distraction caused by the attack on the secretariat of Africa Democratic Congress (ADC) and his convoy, will not distract the party from marching to Aso Rock in 2027.Amaechi charged the security agencies to go after the perpetrators and bring them to book.Rivers State Police Command is yet to make official statement on the incident, as the spokesperson, CSP Grace Iringe-Koko, is yet to respond to calls and text message sent to her.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. ADCconvoyRiversRotimi Amaechisecretariat","published_at":"2026-03-07T08:40:03+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-07T17:25:18+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"6362fcaedd57cb62bdd52e0f6b208629a9eed51f","text_fingerprint":"news gunmen attack amaechi s convoy raze adc secretariat in rivers by bassey willie port harcourt sat 7 mar 2026 8 40 03 wat gunmen suspected to be political thugs on friday attacked the convoy of a chieftain of the african democratic congress adc chibuike amaechi in rivers state the gunmen attacked the convoy of amaechi between his community ubima and omuanwa in the ikwerre local government area of rivers state the former minister was in his hometown for e registration as a member of the adc sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid div vi 1716478739 innerhtml viapitag","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"7d9663adeae112c5","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/foreign/862296-iwd-2026-women-hold-just-64-legal-rights-men-enjoy-un.html","title":"IWD 2026: Women hold just 64% legal rights men enjoy - UN","snippet":"In spite of decades of progress, the report says women and girls are still not equal to men under the law anywhere on earth.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT UN Security Council meeting IWD 2026: Women hold just 64% legal rights men enjoy – UN In spite of decades of progress, the report says women and girls are still not equal to men under the law anywhere on earth. byAgency Report March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read Women’s rights are regressing worldwide as women hold only 64 per cent of the legal rights that men enjoy globally, a UN report has found. In spite of decades of progress, the report says women and girls are still not equal to men under the law anywhere on earth. The report titled, “Ensuring and Strengthening Access to Justice for All Women and Girls,” says laws are being reshaped to restrict women’s freedoms, silence their voices and allow abuse without consequence. It warns that women and girls are being failed by the very systems meant to protect them. According to the report, this leaves them exposed to abuse, injustice and impunity as backlash against gender equality intensifies. The 2026 International Women’s Day highlights the urgent need to close the justice gap for women and girls worldwide. International Women’s Day 2026 shines a spotlight on a critical issue: inequality in justice systems around the world. “The reality is stark. In more than half of the world’s countries, rape laws are not based on consent,” the report reads. “Nearly three out of four nations still legally allow girls to be forced into marriage, cutting short childhoods, education and future. “44 per cent of countries do not have laws that guarantee equal pay for work of equal value. “About 54 per cent of countries lack consent-based definition of rape.” In many places, women still face legal barriers to owning property, seeking divorce, passing citizenship to their children, or even working and moving freely without their husband’s permission. According to UN Women Executive Director Sima Bahous, when women and girls are denied justice, the damage goes far beyond any single case. “Public trust erodes, institutions lose legitimacy, and the rule of law itself is weakened. A justice system that fails half the population cannot claim to uphold justice at all,” Bahous said. However, some progress has been made, and it matters, according to the report. “Today, 87 per cent of countries have laws against domestic violence and more than 40 nations have strengthened constitutional protections for women and girls in the past decade,” it says. Despite the reported progress, the report says that laws alone are not enough. “Survivors often face stigma, fear, financial barriers and a lack of trust in institutions meant to protect them. “As a result, justice remains out of reach for far too many”, the report says. At the same time, the report says the world is witnessing troubling setbacks. In some places, it says hard-won rights are being rolled back, while new forms of violence, such as digital abuse, are increasing. READ ALSO: Key developments in women’s rights, equality in Nigeria (November 2025 Edition) “For the 676 million women and girls living within 50 kilometres of active conflict zones, justice systems are largely absent, and perpetrators act with impunity. “Rape continues to be used as a weapon of war, with reported cases of sexual violence rising by 87 per cent in just two years.” According to UN Secretary-General António Guterres, “Women’s rights are human rights and investigating in women and girls is one of the surest ways to make the world a better place.” International Women’s Day is, therefore, not only a moment of reflection, it is a call to action, Guterres says. “When women are not equal under the law, equality does not truly exist. “Ensuring justice for all women and girls is essential for building fairer, stronger societies everywhere. Now is the time to act,” he said. The UN chief urged support for UN Women and women’s movements worldwide to help turn rights into reality for every woman and girl. (NAN) Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Iran attacks threaten regional, global stability, Erdogan tells Starmer Agency Report All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T05:10:27+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:41:57+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"ab67e9612e54c6e3a646e3887a95552acd95490b","text_fingerprint":"advertisement un security council meeting iwd 2026 women hold just 64 legal rights men enjoy un in spite of decades of progress the report says women and girls are still not equal to men under the law anywhere on earth byagency report march 8 2026 reading time 2 mins read women s rights are regressing worldwide as women hold only 64 per cent of the legal rights that men enjoy globally a un report has found in spite of decades of progress the report says women and girls are still not equal to men under the law anywhere on earth the report titled ensuring and strengthening access to justice for ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"45a0b66bdc1e4013","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/foreign/862293-iran-attacks-threaten-regional-global-stability-erdogan-tells-starmer.html","title":"Iran attacks threaten regional, global stability, Erdogan tells Starmer","snippet":"“If the interventions are prolonged, they could cause significant damage to regional and global stability.\"","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer with Turkish President Recep Erdogan Iran attacks threaten regional, global stability, Erdogan tells Starmer “If the interventions are prolonged, they could cause significant damage to regional and global stability.\" byAgency Report March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 1 min read Turkish President Recep Erdogan spoke with UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer on Saturday, highlighting concerns over the recent escalation following US-Israeli attacks on Iran. “Türkiye is closely monitoring the process that began with the attacks on Iran. “If the interventions are prolonged, they could cause significant damage to regional and global stability. “There are still measures that can be taken to build a dialogue platform, and our peace-focused efforts continue,” he said. Mr Erdogan was speaking during a phone call with Mr Starmer, according to an official statement released by the Turkish Communications Directorate. READ ALSO: US/Israel-Iran War (Day 8): Demand for Russian oil increases as war enters second week. The discussion also covered bilateral relations and broader regional and global issues. According to the statement, Mr Erdogan reaffirmed Türkiye’s strong commitment to deepening cooperation with the UK across all sectors, particularly in the defence industry. The Turkish President added that his country would continue taking steps to advance the collaboration. (NAN/AA) Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Hoodlums attack LG congresses of Wike’s PDP faction in Oyo Next Post IWD 2026: Women hold just 64% legal rights men enjoy – UN Agency Report All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T05:00:28+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:01+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"b0bfad66be1ba72fa12134a0d9394906191b0ae9","text_fingerprint":"advertisement uk prime minister keir starmer with turkish president recep erdogan iran attacks threaten regional global stability erdogan tells starmer if the interventions are prolonged they could cause significant damage to regional and global stability byagency report march 8 2026 reading time 1 min read turkish president recep erdogan spoke with uk prime minister keir starmer on saturday highlighting concerns over the recent escalation following us israeli attacks on iran türkiye is closely monitoring the process that began with the attacks on iran if the interventions are prolonged they c","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"d0d1abe275443381","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/ssouth-west/862290-hoodlums-attack-lg-congresses-of-wikes-pdp-faction-in-oyo.html","title":"Hoodlums attack LG congresses of Wike's PDP faction in Oyo","snippet":"“Many vehicles and other property belonging to our members were also vandalised.\"","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Mr Nyesom Wike Hoodlums attack LG congresses of Wike’s PDP faction in Oyo “Many vehicles and other property belonging to our members were also vandalised.\" byAgency Report March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 1 min read Hoodlums disrupted Saturday’s local government congress of the Mr Nyesom Wike faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), leaving a trail of destruction of property and injuries. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that party members were attacked at Bodija, Ibadan North Local Government Area, and allegedly, at other venues of the congress across the state. According to a member of the faction, Julius Adekunle, the hoodlums attacked almost all the designated venues of the congresses across the state. “It was a planned attack because the hoodlums touched many of the venues across the state. “Reports from Ogbomoso North, Ibarapa Central, Akinyele, Ibadan North LGAs, among others, showed that not less than 10 of our members were attacked. READ ALSO: How ex-PDP chairperson clinched APC leadership in Taraba “Many vehicles and other property belonging to our members were also vandalised. “The hoodlums also invaded the house of our party leader, Chief Hazeem Gbolarunmi, at Bodija, where property worth millions of naira was vandalised,” Mr Adekunle said. The faction’s state Chairman, Abdulrahman Akinoso, confirmed the incident and expressed concern over the development. Akinoso described the incident as chaotic and called on security operatives to ensure those responsible were arrested and held accountable. (NAN) Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post APC shocked over member’s alleged role in Ebonyi traditional ruler’s kidnap, killing Next Post Iran attacks threaten regional, global stability, Erdogan tells Starmer Agency Report All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T04:50:46+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:05+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"735538f50e08e040e0369df534bfd3e70c626712","text_fingerprint":"advertisement mr nyesom wike hoodlums attack lg congresses of wike s pdp faction in oyo many vehicles and other property belonging to our members were also vandalised byagency report march 8 2026 reading time 1 min read hoodlums disrupted saturday s local government congress of the mr nyesom wike faction of the peoples democratic party pdp leaving a trail of destruction of property and injuries the news agency of nigeria nan reports that party members were attacked at bodija ibadan north local government area and allegedly at other venues of the congress across the state according to a member ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"5d4758104805e9d3","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/more-news/862287-apc-shocked-over-members-alleged-role-in-ebonyi-traditional-rulers-kidnap-killing.html","title":"APC shocked over member’s alleged role in Ebonyi traditional ruler’s kidnap, killing","snippet":"“Members of the party cannot believe in their entire lives that the party can be associated with such act.\"","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Ebonyi's former Deputy Governor, Kelechi Igwe APC shocked over member’s alleged role in Ebonyi traditional ruler’s kidnap, killing “Members of the party cannot believe in their entire lives that the party can be associated with such act.\" byAgency Report March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed shock at its member’s involvement in the kidnap and eventual death of Francis Igwe, father of Ebonyi’s former Deputy Governor, Kelechi Igwe. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that confirmed reports indicate that the party’s publicity secretary in the state was involved in the act. The APC Chairman in Ebonyi, Stanley Okoro-Emegha, expressed shock on Saturday when he led a party delegation on a condolence visit to Mr Igwe’s family in Ndufu-Alike, Ikwo Local Government Area (LGA). Mr Okoro-Emegha said the news of the party executive’s complicity was so shocking that he could not face the public. “The report is unheard of, as I do not have the confidence to face the public since the past two days. “Members of the party cannot believe in their entire lives that the party can be associated with such act. “We operate as a family to the extent that someone can vouch for another despite our normal party activities,” he said. The party chairman insisted that it would support the decision of the state government on the matter, in getting justice for the Igwe family. “The governor, as the father of the state and leader of the party, cannot tolerate such evil act, no matter who is involved. “We condemn whatever is condemnable, as whatever is evil is evil. “All those who heard of the act and did not disclose it among other levels of involvement must receive equal measure of what they deserve,” he said. He urged the deputy governor to be consoled because being strong would inspire consolation in those around him. “I also urge the family and entire community to be consoled because the deputy governor needs your solace to be strong. “The worst thing one can do against God is to take a life that you do not know how it was created,” he said. The Palace Secretary of the community, Johnson Aloh, thanked the party for the visit, noting that the palace and community were totally devastated over the incident. READ ALSO: Lagos APC’s newly re-elected Asst. Publicity Secretary dies, party mourns Mr Aloh regretted that such an act was perpetuated in Ebonyi when the state had become a model among states and a haven of peace. “Truly, it was earth-shaking when we heard that the name of our dear party was soiled by the actions of an individual. “We, however, have the discerning spirit to differentiate the act of an individual from that of the party, as we know that the party can never indulge in such an act. “We thank you for spearheading this fight and urge you to help in ensuring that bad eggs who want to tarnish the state’s image are checked,” he said. (NAN) Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Soldiers repelled coordinated Boko Haram attacks on Borno communities – Nigerian Army Next Post Hoodlums attack LG congresses of Wike’s PDP faction in Oyo Agency Report All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T04:41:58+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:07+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"6ff690a6bd4db58e737f6b0cc4d33b51cf786dcb","text_fingerprint":"advertisement ebonyi s former deputy governor kelechi igwe apc shocked over member s alleged role in ebonyi traditional ruler s kidnap killing members of the party cannot believe in their entire lives that the party can be associated with such act byagency report march 8 2026 reading time 2 mins read the all progressives congress apc has expressed shock at its member s involvement in the kidnap and eventual death of francis igwe father of ebonyi s former deputy governor kelechi igwe the news agency of nigeria nan reports that confirmed reports indicate that the party s publicity secretary in t","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"63ba94bf804bc18a","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/nnorth-east/862285-soldiers-repelled-coordinated-boko-haram-attacks-on-borno-communities-nigerian-army.html","title":"Soldiers repelled coordinated Boko Haram attacks on Borno communities - Nigerian Army","snippet":"“During the engagements, several terrorists were neutralised,\" the army said.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Troops of the Nigerian Army Soldiers repelled coordinated Boko Haram attacks on Borno communities – Nigerian Army “During the engagements, several terrorists were neutralised,\" the army said. byAgency Report March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The Nigerian Army says media reports that 40 soldiers died in recent terrorist attacks in parts of Borno were exaggerated and misleading. In a statement on Saturday, Sani Uba, a lieutenant colonel, said the reports ignored troops’ gallant efforts in repelling coordinated terrorist assaults on several North-East communities. Mr Uba, who is the media information officer of Headquarters Joint Task Force North East Operation HADIN KAI, said the attackers were remnants of Boko Haram earlier dislodged from Sambisa Forest. He said the terrorists regrouped and launched coordinated night assaults from multiple directions on communities and military positions around Konduga, Ngoshe, Mainok and Jakana. According to him, troops responded swiftly, engaging the insurgents in intense battles and successfully repelling the attackers while defending the affected communities. He said: “During the engagements, several terrorists were neutralised. “Sadly, a Commanding Officer and some brave soldiers paid the supreme price while courageously confronting the attackers and preventing devastation in other communities.” Mr Uba stressed that troops were not overrun as suggested in the report, noting they fought from multiple fronts to protect civilians and restore normalcy. He added that the attackers used indiscriminate explosives and heavy nighttime gunfire, leading to civilian casualties as some residents were caught in the crossfire. READ ALSO: Ramadan Siege: Rising terror attacks in Islamic holy month shake Northern Nigeria Mr Uba also disclosed that the Chief of Army Staff, Waidi Shaibu, visited Maiduguri to assess the situation and strengthen ongoing counter-terrorism operations. He said the army chief ordered immediate reinforcement of troops and deployment of additional equipment to sustain pressure on fleeing terrorists. Mr Uba added that coordinated ground and air operations were ongoing to pursue the insurgents, dismantle regrouping elements and rescue civilians possibly abducted during the attacks. He urged the public to disregard exaggerated reports aimed at undermining troops’ morale. “The Nigerian Army remains resolute and committed to decisively confronting the terrorists until lasting peace is restored in the North-East,” he said. (NAN) Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Ramadan Siege: Rising terror attacks in Islamic holy month shake Northern Nigeria Next Post APC shocked over member’s alleged role in Ebonyi traditional ruler’s kidnap, killing Agency Report All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T04:34:22+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:09+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"ff450d9188fcd14d2ba41e72b006bab56b0da31f","text_fingerprint":"advertisement troops of the nigerian army soldiers repelled coordinated boko haram attacks on borno communities nigerian army during the engagements several terrorists were neutralised the army said byagency report march 8 2026 reading time 2 mins read the nigerian army says media reports that 40 soldiers died in recent terrorist attacks in parts of borno were exaggerated and misleading in a statement on saturday sani uba a lieutenant colonel said the reports ignored troops gallant efforts in repelling coordinated terrorist assaults on several north east communities mr uba who is the media inf","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"34c62fdd4917d144","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/862281-ramadan-siege-rising-terror-attacks-in-islamic-holy-month-shake-northern-nigeria.html","title":"Ramadan Siege: Rising terror attacks in Islamic holy month shake Northern Nigeria","snippet":"From Borno to Kebbi and Zamfara, a wave of attacks since the start of Ramadan has left dozens dead, displaced thousands and raised fresh fears about insurgent resurgence.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Terrorists Ramadan Siege: Rising terror attacks in Islamic holy month shake Northern Nigeria From Borno to Kebbi and Zamfara, a wave of attacks since the start of Ramadan has left dozens dead, displaced thousands and raised fresh fears about insurgent resurgence. byOgalah Dunamis March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 5 mins read Shortly after Muslims broke their fast last Wednesday in Ngoshe, a rural community in the Gwoza Local Government Area of Borno State, gunfire shattered the quiet evening. Within hours, suspected Boko Haram insurgents had overrun a military base, killed soldiers and community leaders, and abducted scores of women and children—triggering another humanitarian crisis in Nigeria’s conflict-scarred North-east. By morning, hundreds of residents had fled into neighbouring Pulka, carrying with them the latest scars of a conflict that has haunted the region for more than a decade. But the Ngoshe assault is not an isolated incident. Across northern Nigeria, a series of attacks since the beginning of Ramadan has left dozens of people dead, displaced thousands of residents and renewed fears that terrorists and bandits may be escalating violence during the Muslim holy month. At least six major attacks targeting soldiers and rural communities have been recorded in northern Nigeria since the start of Ramadan, according to reports compiled from local authorities and media accounts. FILE PHOTO: Nigerian Army on patrol [PHOTO CREDIT: HQ Nigerian Army]PREMIUM TIMES reports that the Nigerian Army on Saturday buried the soldiers killed in recent attacks by terrorists in Borno State. The army did not state the exact number of soldiers buried, but they are estimated to be in the dozens. Apart from the attack in Ngoshe, the terrorists also attacked military bases in Konduga, Marte, Jakana and Mainok late on Thursday and early Friday. The Ngoshe Attack According to reports by Daily Trust, The PUNCH, and local officials in Borno State, insurgents launched a coordinated attack on Ngoshe late Wednesday night, first targeting a military base of the 82 Division Task Force Battalion before storming the town and an internally displaced persons (IDP) camp. Security sources said the attackers arrived in large numbers and overwhelmed troops stationed at the base. Internally Displaced Persons Camp Maiduguri, Borno state (PHOTO CREDIT: Nike Adebowale-Tambe) Nine soldiers were later confirmed dead, while several armoured vehicles and military equipment were destroyed during the assault. After dislodging the troops, the insurgents moved into the community, burning houses and abducting residents, particularly women and children. Local officials say more than 100 people are still missing, although some community leaders believe the number could be higher. Among those killed during the raid were the chief imam of the town and several community elders. Thousands of residents have since fled to neighbouring Pulka town, where many are now sleeping in classrooms, school compounds and open spaces while awaiting humanitarian assistance. “You will see a mother crying and searching for her children, or children looking for their parents,” a resident told journalists after fleeing the attack. Pattern of renewed insurgent assaults The Ngoshe attack fits into a broader pattern of renewed insurgent assaults on military formations and rural communities in Nigeria’s North-east in recent months. Data compiled from security reports shows that several attacks targeting soldiers and civilians have occurred in Borno State since the beginning of the year. On 1 March, Boko Haram fighters attacked a forward operating base in Mayanti in Bama Local Government Area, killing the base commander, Major U.I. Mairiga, alongside three soldiers and a civilian hunter. Earlier, on 6 February, four soldiers were killed in an ambush near Auno along the Maiduguri–Damaturu highway when troops travelling to reinforce colleagues came under attack. On 5 January, nine soldiers died after their convoy struck a landmine near Bindundul village in Mobbar Local Government Area before coming under heavy gunfire. Another attack on 28 January in Damasak reportedly left seven soldiers dead, including a commanding officer. Such repeated assaults on military formations may indicate attempts by insurgent groups to weaken troop presence in strategic locations across the region. Security experts say attacks on isolated military formations are a long-standing tactic used by insurgent groups operating in the Lake Chad region. By targeting smaller bases and forward operating posts, militants are often able to seize weapons, destroy equipment and temporarily disrupt security operations in surrounding communities. Umara Ibrahim, a professor of International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Maiduguri, has argued that attacks on resettling communities may also be intended to undermine government efforts to return displaced residents to their homes. According to Mr Ibrahim, the return of civilians to previously abandoned towns can restrict insurgents’ freedom of movement and make their activities easier to monitor. Despite more than a decade of military operations against Boko Haram and its splinter faction, ISWAP, attacks on remote communities and military bases continue to challenge security gains in the North-east. Analysts warn that unless intelligence gathering and rapid-response capabilities improve, such assaults may continue to threaten communities attempting to rebuild their lives after years of conflict. Military response Military sources say the Nigerian Armed Forces responded to the Ngoshe attack with airstrikes targeting fleeing insurgents. According to security reports, surveillance aircraft tracked the militants along known escape routes before the Nigerian Air Force launched precision strikes that reportedly killed more than 50 fighters. Despite the counterattack, many residents remain unaccounted for. Ali Ndume, who represents Borno South Senatorial District in the Senate, condemned the attack and called for stronger military operations in the Sambisa Forest and Mandara Mountains. Senator Ali Ndume (PHOTO CREDIT: Official Facebook @Sen. Muhammad Ali Ndume] “The military base in the community was dislodged and major equipment destroyed,” Mr Ndume said while reacting to the incident. “Unfortunately, soldiers, the chief imam of Ngoshe and some elders were among those killed during the attack.” The senator added that authorities were working with the Borno State Emergency Management Agency to provide relief materials for displaced residents now sheltering in Pulka. Ramadan attacks across the North The violence in Ngoshe is part of a wider surge of attacks across northern Nigeria since the start of Ramadan. Ramadan is an Islamic holy month where Muslims fast from dawn to dusk by abstaining from food and water, as well as from all things considered immoral. In Kebbi State, at least 34 people were killed on the first day of Ramadan in several communities in Arewa Local Government Area. A week later, gunmen attacked a mosque in Dadin Kowa in Maiyama Local Government Area of the state, killing five worshippers during a Qur’anic Tafsir session. In Zamfara State, about 50 residents were reportedly killed during an overnight raid on villages in Anka Local Government Area. Similar attacks have also been recorded in Adamawa, Niger and Kaduna states, where gunmen have raided communities, killed residents and abducted worshippers during nighttime assaults. Communities being rebuilt are displaced again The latest attack has also disrupted fragile resettlement efforts in parts of Borno State. In recent months, some refugees who fled to neighbouring Cameroon during the height of the insurgency had begun returning to communities in Gwoza and surrounding areas. But the Ngoshe raid has forced many families to flee once again. Residents say the town is now largely deserted, with thousands seeking refuge in Pulka and nearby communities. Humanitarian conditions in the area are worsening as displaced families struggle with limited shelter, food, and basic supplies. Community groups have appealed for urgent assistance for the victims. The Gwoza Youth Forum called on humanitarian organisations and government agencies to provide food, clothing, and essential household items to displaced families now sheltering in Pulka. For many residents gathered there, however, the greatest concern remains the fate of those taken away during the attack. In Pulka, where displaced families now sleep in classrooms and open fields, many residents say the attack did not end when the gunfire stopped. Until the missing are found, the night Ngoshe came under siege will remain unfinished. Clerics condemn violence during holy month Islamic clerics have condemned the wave of violence, noting that the killings contradict the spiritual significance of Ramadan. Ibrahim Siraj, an Islamic scholar and lecturer at Bayero University Kano, said Islam strongly condemns the taking of innocent lives. “Whoever kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Hell, to abide therein forever,” he said, quoting from the Quran. “Ramadan is a sacred period meant for reflection and self-restraint. To carry out violence during this time shows complete disregard for its sanctity.” Another cleric, Halliru Maraya, said many of the attackers act outside the principles of the faith they claim to represent. “These criminals are not guided by Islamic teachings,” he said. “They simply commit atrocities and attempt to justify them in the name of religion.” Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post ‘Cooking on public roads is prohibited’ — Lagos govt warns Sarah Martins Next Post Soldiers repelled coordinated Boko Haram attacks on Borno communities – Nigerian Army Ogalah Dunamis All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T04:18:01+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:10+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"aeaf4724c566c9d0e14a0e4ab58b57a85b257d9e","text_fingerprint":"advertisement terrorists ramadan siege rising terror attacks in islamic holy month shake northern nigeria from borno to kebbi and zamfara a wave of attacks since the start of ramadan has left dozens dead displaced thousands and raised fresh fears about insurgent resurgence byogalah dunamis march 8 2026 reading time 5 mins read shortly after muslims broke their fast last wednesday in ngoshe a rural community in the gwoza local government area of borno state gunfire shattered the quiet evening within hours suspected boko haram insurgents had overrun a military base killed soldiers and community ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"72601e16506cfa1d","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/entertainment/naija-fashion/862278-cooking-on-public-roads-is-prohibited-lagos-govt-warns-sarah-martins.html","title":"‘Cooking on public roads is prohibited’ — Lagos govt warns Sarah Martins","snippet":"The warning comes four months after authorities apprehended her for a similar outreach programme in the Admiralty area of Lekki Phase 1.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Sarah Martins (Photo Credit: Facebook ) ‘Cooking on public roads is prohibited’ — Lagos govt warns Sarah Martins The warning comes four months after authorities apprehended her for a similar outreach programme in the Admiralty area of Lekki Phase 1. byFriday Omosola March 7, 2026 Reading Time: 3 mins read The Lagos State Government has again warned actress Sarah Martins against conducting charity cooking activities on public roads, walkways or medians in the state. PREMIUM TIMES reported that the warning came four months after authorities apprehended her for a similar outreach programme in the Admiralty area of Lekki Phase 1. In October 2025, this newspaper reported that officials of the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC/KAI) apprehended the actress for engaging in unauthorised activities on public infrastructure. Although Objective Four of the LAGESC/KAI law on “street vending” prohibits cooking or selling food on roads and sidewalks, Ms Martins posted a video on her Instagram page on Friday showing herself cooking on a Lagos street. sumptuous delicacies In the video’s caption, she said she missed the bond she shared with children on the streets and decided to return. She added that they prepared, together, what she described as “sumptuous delicacies” during the outreach. “I was missing the bond I share with my kids in the street, so I paid them a visit, and we made a sumptuous delicacy together”, she wrote. Govt frowns Reacting to Ms Martin’s return to cooking on the street, the state Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Tokunbo Wahab, said his attention was drawn to the actress’s recent activity. Mr Wahab, in a post on his X page on Saturday, stated that the government acknowledged and appreciated her spirit of charity. He added that such an act was not permitted under the state environmental and public order regulations. He emphasised that while charitable initiatives were commendable, they must comply with the state’s environmental and sanitation laws. He said: “Dear Sarah Martins, I hope you are well. My attention has been drawn to your recent activity of cooking and distributing food on the streets of Lagos. While we acknowledge and appreciate the spirit of charity and compassion behind what you are trying to do, carrying out such activities on public roads, walkways or medians is not permitted under Lagos environmental and public order regulations. “Cooking or trading on public infrastructure poses safety, sanitation and traffic concerns. You were previously cautioned about this same issue last year due to the understanding of its philanthropic intention and pleas.” Proper way Additionally, Mr Wahab urged the actress to refrain from engaging in such acts in the future. He advised Ms Martins to conduct any charitable outreach through proper channels and at approved locations if she wished to continue such activities. “I would strongly advise that you desist from carrying out street cooking or similar activities in public spaces in Lagos to avoid apprehension and prosecution. “If you wish to continue your charitable outreach, it should be done through proper channels and in approved locations so that your efforts can support vulnerable people without violating existing laws and constituting an environmental nuisance”, he said. Mr Wahab reiterated the need for all Lagosians to abide by the state law just as they would in any other well-regulated city. Backstory This newspaper earlier reported that, after her arrest, the actress said Seyi Tinubu, son of Nigeria’s President Bola Tinubu, gave her N20 million to support her charity initiative. In a video posted on her Instagram page, a woman was seen presenting an envelope said to contain N20 million to Ms Martins. She explained that Mr Tinubu admired the actress’s humanitarian efforts and encouraged her to secure a proper shop to ensure public safety and sustain the initiative. She also stated that Mr Tinubu promised to equip the shop with appropriate industrial equipment once the space was secured. However, this newspaper later reported that Mr Tinubu clarified that the funds did not come from his personal account. “I have been informed that some friends of mine, moved by compassion, raised funds to support a young woman who had an encounter with the law over an environmental violation. “Their intention, I believe, was to help her secure a proper space to run her business, not to undermine the law. I appreciate their kindness and concern”, Seyi wrote on his Instagram Story. The Imo-born actress began acting in 2004 but gained recognition for her charitable street cooking initiative. She’s known for movies like “The Widows,” “Dangerous Mad Man,” “The Gods Are Wise,” “Family Lies,” and “Feast of the Spirits,” among others. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Gateway Airport critical to cargo movement in Nigeria – Shippers’ Council CEO Next Post Ramadan Siege: Rising terror attacks in Islamic holy month shake Northern Nigeria Friday Omosola All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-07T22:15:43+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:12+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"d2545010a30ecf7d963fe51888a047654cfda020","text_fingerprint":"advertisement sarah martins photo credit facebook cooking on public roads is prohibited lagos govt warns sarah martins the warning comes four months after authorities apprehended her for a similar outreach programme in the admiralty area of lekki phase 1 byfriday omosola march 7 2026 reading time 3 mins read the lagos state government has again warned actress sarah martins against conducting charity cooking activities on public roads walkways or medians in the state premium times reported that the warning came four months after authorities apprehended her for a similar outreach programme in th","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"c7a1b833ef924375","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/promoted/862274-gateway-airport-critical-to-cargo-movement-in-nigeria-shippers-council-ceo.html","title":"Gateway Airport critical to cargo movement in Nigeria – Shippers’ Council CEO","snippet":"The Shippers’ Council Executive Secretary who expressed satisfaction with the pace of development in the state, said the airport would serve as a strategic hub for cargo movement within Nigeria and across the West African sub-region.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Governor Dapo Abiodun Gateway Airport critical to cargo movement in Nigeria – Shippers’ Council CEO The Shippers’ Council Executive Secretary who expressed satisfaction with the pace of development in the state, said the airport would serve as a strategic hub for cargo movement within Nigeria and across the West African sub-region. byPress Release March 7, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The Executive Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Shippers’ Council, Akutah Pius Okeyima has described the Gateway International Airport as a critical piece of infrastructure capable of addressing the challenges associated with cargo movement within Nigeria and across the West African sub-region. Mr Akutah made this known when he led a delegation of officials from the Council on a courtesy visit to the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, at his office in Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. The Shippers’ Council boss, who expressed satisfaction with the pace of development in the state, said the airport would serve as a strategic hub for cargo movement within Nigeria and across the West African sub-region. According to him, the cargo airport represents a significant milestone in strengthening the country’s transportation infrastructure and improving the movement of goods. He said: “The state cargo airport is one of the critical infrastructure for transportation and for the movement of cargo in and out of Nigeria. The commissioning and utilisation of this airport represents another milestone in the development of infrastructure around cargo transportation within and outside the country. “Today, the movement of cargo around West Africa is very challenging due to the lack of an effective intermodal transport system within the sub-region. However, the development of this cargo airport presents enormous potential for progress in facilitating cargo movement to West Africa and beyond.” Mr Akutah noted that Ogun State remains the nation’s industrial hub, making seamless cargo movement essential for economic growth. He commended the state government for developing two dry ports simultaneously, noting that the projects are progressing at an impressive pace. He also explained that the Council chose Ogun State to host the fourth edition of its retreat because of the conducive environment, adding that the gathering would provide members with the opportunity to deliberate on key issues affecting cargo movement and proffer workable solutions. “We have a lot to discuss for the progress of the Nigeria Shippers’ Council. We have several projects, and one of them is located here in Ogun State. Our concern this year is to expand critical infrastructure for services in Nigeria to ensure that cargo movement through and from the country is faster and that the ease of doing business is enhanced. “Ogun State is a great partner in this regard with the simultaneous development of two dry ports. We specifically chose to come here to demonstrate our solidarity with the government, which is working very hard to help decongest the seaports through the development of these critical infrastructure projects,” he said. Mr Akutah also praised the rapid pace of development across the state, attributing the increasing number of industries to the government’s commitment to infrastructure development and the creation of a conducive business environment. “Within the last two years that we have been visiting, there has been remarkable progress. The governor is clearly committed to excellence, and his touch can be seen in the transformation taking place across the state,” he added. Speaking, Governor Abiodun disclosed that the state government is also developing a Deep Sea Port to further accelerate economic growth, noting that the project would help ease congestion at the Lagos ports and enhance cargo movement across the country when completed. The governor commended the Nigeria Shippers’ Council for its role in facilitating seamless cargo movement through effective handling, processing and regulation, urging members to use the retreat to deliberate on strategies that would further strengthen the Council’s efficiency and service delivery. He also appreciated the Council for choosing Ogun State as the venue for its retreat, reiterating that his administration has been deliberate in creating a peaceful and conducive environment for people to live, work and do business in the state. Governor Abiodun assured the Council of the continued support of the Ogun State Government in its efforts to improve cargo movement and strengthen Nigeria’s logistics and maritime sector. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Let faith inspire compassion and service, Abiodun urges Muslims at Iftar Next Post ‘Cooking on public roads is prohibited’ — Lagos govt warns Sarah Martins Press Release All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-07T20:44:51+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:15+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"cc7f0ee07b7dcfdea15078199ca7d0849dcbd8fb","text_fingerprint":"advertisement governor dapo abiodun gateway airport critical to cargo movement in nigeria shippers council ceo the shippers council executive secretary who expressed satisfaction with the pace of development in the state said the airport would serve as a strategic hub for cargo movement within nigeria and across the west african sub region bypress release march 7 2026 reading time 2 mins read the executive secretary and chief executive officer of the nigeria shippers council akutah pius okeyima has described the gateway international airport as a critical piece of infrastructure capable of add","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"3367376112807e7b","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/promoted/862270-let-faith-inspire-compassion-and-service-abiodun-urges-muslims-at-iftar.html","title":"Let faith inspire compassion and service, Abiodun urges Muslims at Iftar","snippet":"Governor Abiodun made the call during the Ramadan Special Iftar organised by the Ogun State Government with the theme, “An Islamic Path to Societal Re-orientation,” held at the Arcade Ground, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT L-R: Ogun State House of Assembly Speaker Hon Oludaisi Elemide; the guest lecturer and the Registrar of JAMB Prof Is-Haq Oloyede; Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun; wife of the Governor Mrs Bamidele Abiodun and the Deputy Governor Mrs Noimot Salako-Oyedele, during the Ramadan Special Iftar with the theme \" An Islamic Path to Societal Re-orientation held at the Arcade Ground of the Governor's office,Oke-Mosan,Abeokuta on Friday. Let faith inspire compassion and service, Abiodun urges Muslims at Iftar Governor Abiodun made the call during the Ramadan Special Iftar organised by the Ogun State Government with the theme, “An Islamic Path to Societal Re-orientation,” held at the Arcade Ground, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta byPress Release March 7, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun has called on Muslims to allow the spirit of Ramadan reflect in their daily lives by demonstrating compassion, generosity, and service to humanity. Governor Abiodun made the call during the Ramadan Special Iftar organised by the Ogun State Government with the theme, “An Islamic Path to Societal Re-orientation,” held at the Arcade Ground, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, at the weekend. The governor urged Muslims in the state to support the poor, uplift the vulnerable, and extend kindness to people around them, noting that communities become stronger and more peaceful when citizens show care for one another. He described Ramadan as more than a religious observance, saying it is a sacred period that nurtures discipline, compassion, and moral character. Governor Abiodun commended Muslim clerics for their guidance and leadership, which he said continues to provide moral direction for communities while strengthening the spiritual foundations of society. According to him, their teachings and counsel have played a vital role in promoting peace, stability, and socio-economic harmony. “Your insights have reminded us that the renewal of society must begin with the renewal of our values, our character, and our commitment to justice, compassion, and integrity. “We are confident that the ideas shared today will continue to guide and enrich our collective efforts towards building a more principled and responsible society,” he said. The governor described the theme of the lecture as timely and relevant, noting that societies across the world are facing moral and social challenges that require renewed commitment to ethical values. He identified dishonesty, intolerance, erosion of family values, and declining civic responsibilities as issues that demand collective reflection and action. Mr Abiodun added that religious leaders play a crucial role in shaping societal values through sermons, teachings, and spiritual guidance, as they help nurture the moral consciousness of communities. “I once again commend our Imams and Islamic scholars for their continued efforts in promoting peace, tolerance, and unity. “Ogun State has long been known for its tradition of religious harmony. Muslims, Christians, and people of other faiths have lived together peacefully for generations,” he said. The governor also acknowledged the leadership of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, noting that his public life reflects respect for faith, compassion, and service to humanity. According to him, the president has consistently demonstrated that true leadership embraces both spiritual values and national responsibility. He said the president’s commitment to justice, fairness, tolerance, and inclusiveness continues to inspire many Nigerians, adding that he remains steadfast in guiding the nation towards stability, growth, and shared prosperity. Governor Abiodun further noted that Ramadan goes beyond abstaining from food and drink between dawn and sunset, describing it as a period of spiritual purification and self-discipline. He emphasised that charity occupies a central place during the holy month and that his administration recognises the importance of people-centred governance. According to him, leadership must not be focused solely on infrastructure and economic growth, but must also prioritise the welfare of citizens. He stated that government has the responsibility to design policies and programmes that support the vulnerable and strengthen communities, noting that this commitment is reflected in his administration’s Building Our Future Together agenda, which prioritises social welfare, youth empowerment, economic growth, and inclusive development. Delivering a lecture titled “An Islamic Path to Societal Re-orientation,” Professor Is-haq Oloyede lamented that many parents are gradually abandoning their responsibilities by outsourcing parenting. He observed that some Nigerian universities have increasingly become “asylums” due to the failure of some parents to instill discipline and moral values in their children. Professor Oloyede urged Nigerians not to remain silent when they observe behaviours among younger generations that contradict cultural values, especially respect for elders. The JAMB Registrar noted that rebuilding the nation’s educational culture, investing more in education, strengthening family ties, and ensuring good governance are essential steps toward achieving societal re-orientation. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Enugu govt gives property owners 90 days to regularise building plans Next Post Gateway Airport critical to cargo movement in Nigeria – Shippers’ Council CEO Press Release All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-07T20:31:32+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:17+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"69aad67c8dcd3c638933df984113b60a2913f3c3","text_fingerprint":"advertisement l r ogun state house of assembly speaker hon oludaisi elemide the guest lecturer and the registrar of jamb prof is haq oloyede ogun state governor dapo abiodun wife of the governor mrs bamidele abiodun and the deputy governor mrs noimot salako oyedele during the ramadan special iftar with the theme an islamic path to societal re orientation held at the arcade ground of the governor s office oke mosan abeokuta on friday let faith inspire compassion and service abiodun urges muslims at iftar governor abiodun made the call during the ramadan special iftar organised by the ogun state","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"3cc5fa0121203975","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/promoted/862268-enugu-govt-gives-property-owners-90-days-to-regularise-building-plans.html","title":"Enugu govt gives property owners 90 days to regularise building plans","snippet":"The government further directed property owners without existing drawings to engage certified architects to prepare as-built plans reflecting their current structures.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT The Enugu State Government Enugu govt gives property owners 90 days to regularise building plans The government further directed property owners without existing drawings to engage certified architects to prepare as-built plans reflecting their current structures. byPress Release March 7, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The Enugu State Government, in line with its commitment to structured urban development and regulatory compliance, has approved a 90-day grace period for property owners without building approvals to regularise their properties and align with the state’s planning regulations. An Enugu State Government public announcement issued by Chiwetalu Nwatu, Managing Director, Enugu State Geographic Information System (ENGIS) on Friday, 6 March stated that “owners of existing buildings without approved building plans are hereby granted 90 days to regularise their properties.” The state government instructed property owners without approved plans to submit as-built drawings for approval. The government further directed property owners without existing drawings to engage certified architects to prepare as-built plans reflecting their current structures. The government clarified that apart from planning approvals within Enugu East, Enugu North, and Enugu South LGAs, which should be submitted to the Enugu Capital Territory Development Authority, all other submissions should be made through the affected Town Planning Authority. It added that “this window provides an opportunity for property owners to secure proper approvals and avoid future sanctions”. Mandatory Compliance Going Forward Concerning mandatory compliance moving forward, the state government reminded property developers, builders, and the general public that no building plan approval will henceforth be granted without a registered land title. It pointed out that acceptable title documents include a Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) or a Registered Deed of Assignment. The announcement further notified property owners that “no construction should commence without both a valid land title and an approved building plan issued by the appropriate Enugu State Government Authority (ECTDA or the designated Town Planning Authority).” Notice to Holders of Power of Attorney The state government advised individuals and corporate bodies holding land under Power of Attorney arrangements to regularise their documentation by registering proper title instruments with the Enugu State Geographic Information System (ENGIS) to ensure eligibility for approvals and full legal protection. “The Enugu State Government remains committed to building a transparent, secure, and technology-driven land management system that protects genuine property owners and supports planned urban growth. “This public statement supercedes any other previous statement on the subject matter,” the government emphasised. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Police train 56 officers, create counterterrorism bases in Adamawa, Cross River, Ogun Next Post Let faith inspire compassion and service, Abiodun urges Muslims at Iftar Press Release All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-07T20:28:04+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:22+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"100cbc9f855d56488e0e21906ae3e01b612579f1","text_fingerprint":"advertisement the enugu state government enugu govt gives property owners 90 days to regularise building plans the government further directed property owners without existing drawings to engage certified architects to prepare as built plans reflecting their current structures bypress release march 7 2026 reading time 2 mins read the enugu state government in line with its commitment to structured urban development and regulatory compliance has approved a 90 day grace period for property owners without building approvals to regularise their properties and align with the state s planning regula","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"0d899f70a892a1e3","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/fa-cup-manchester-city-beat-newcastle-to-join-chelsea-asenal-in-quarter-finals/","title":"FA Cup: Manchester City Beat Newcastle To Join Chelsea, Asenal In Quarter Finals - Daily Trust","snippet":"Omar Mamoush’s second half doubled guided Manchester City to a 3-1 win over Newcastle United to seal their passage into the quarter finals stage of the FA","content_text":"--> Sports FA Cup: Manchester City beat Newcastle to join Chelsea, Asenal in quarter finals By Daily Trust Sat, 7 Mar 2026 23:28:12 WAT Omar Mamoush’s second half doubled guided Manchester City to a 3-1 win over Newcastle United to seal their passage into the quarter finals stage of the FA Cup. The fifth round fixture at St. James’ Park was an entertaining encounter that saw Harvey Barnes put the hosts in front with a well-stuck curling effort early on, but Pep Guadiola’s side pegged back the Magpies with Savinho’s equalizer before halftime. Marmoush completed the turnaround with the brace, putting City ahead on 47 minutes before sealing the win on 65 minutes. The Cityzens are joined by Chelsea who came from a goal down twice to force extra-time where they scored two further goals to win 4-2 against ten men Wrexham. Alejandro Garnacho and Joao Pedro’s extra-time goals broke the hosts’ heart after Arthur Okoronkwo’s own goal and Josh Acheampong’s strike had cancelled Wrexham’s earlier strikes. Their London neighbours Arsenal was the first to confirm their sixth round participation with a 2-1 in at Mansfield thanks to Eberechi Eze’s second half winner.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}})","published_at":"2026-03-07T23:28:12+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:35+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"4c681ef98df0408c449a224dea3e65669f2cfed4","text_fingerprint":"sports fa cup manchester city beat newcastle to join chelsea asenal in quarter finals by daily trust sat 7 mar 2026 23 28 12 wat omar mamoush s second half doubled guided manchester city to a 3 1 win over newcastle united to seal their passage into the quarter finals stage of the fa cup the fifth round fixture at st james park was an entertaining encounter that saw harvey barnes put the hosts in front with a well stuck curling effort early on but pep guadiola s side pegged back the magpies with savinho s equalizer before halftime marmoush completed the turnaround with the brace putting city ah","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"af0e606b9f50c171","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/al-jazeera-interview-i-never-knew-i-would-be-challenged-about-my-past-bwala/","title":"Al Jazeera Interview: I Never Knew I Would Be Challenged About My Past - Bwala - Daily Trust","snippet":"Daniel Bwala, Special Adviser to President Bola Tinubu on Media and Policy Communication, has reacted to the backlash that followed his recent interview with","content_text":"--> News Al Jazeera Interview: I never knew I would be challenged about my past – Bwala bwala By Baba Martins Sat, 7 Mar 2026 23:25:54 WAT Daniel Bwala, Special Adviser to President Bola Tinubu on Media and Policy Communication, has reacted to the backlash that followed his recent interview with Mehdi Hassan, saying his past comments about his principal were made in the context of politics.Bwala spoke during his appearance on Al-Jazeera’s Head to Head with Mehdi Hassan, held at Conway Hall in London. In a statement issued on Saturday, the presidential aide said that having accepted to serve the president, defending and promoting the administration’s policies is a responsibility he carries out with “ease and joy.”SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Bwala said he remains ready to appear before any interviewer anywhere in the world to defend the government, while accusing Mehdi Hassan of employing opposition style tactics during the interview. Kidnapper shot dead as troops rescue victims abducted in Abuja Russia flag raised in Paralympics for the first time in 10 years“I refused to swallow the pill of Mehdi’s opposition research-style journalism. Even today, if you carefully compare what he read as quotes from organisations and groups, you will see that many were inaccurate and some were outright fake news. But I will leave that for another day,” he said.Bwala said he was fully aware of the implications of the role when he accepted the appointment from President Tinubu.“I was well aware of its implications. Selling ice cream, looking fine and seeking the praises of men were never part of it. Some of the fiercest critics of my interview cannot even stand local television anchors,” he said.“But the task of promoting and defending the president and his administration is what I do with ease and joy. I am prepared to appear before any interviewer, anywhere in the world, any day and at any time, to defend this government and its policies.”The presidential aide said he has never and will never avoid interviews on issues relating to the defence of the administration.He explained that the programme Head to Head contacted him for the interview, stating that they intended to question the government on security, the economy and corruption.“Nowhere in our almost six months of communication did they mention that they were going to challenge my past. If that had been their plan, ethically and professionally they were supposed to inform me so I could prepare my response. But that is ok, ethically, that is on them, not on me,” he said.Speaking on his previous remarks about Tinubu, Bwala said such statements were made while he was in the opposition.“As for what I said about President Tinubu in the past, I am glad those were things I said when I was in the opposition with such zeal. It is all politics. Half of Donald Trump’s cabinet is made up of people who once spoke against him, and quite a number of people in our own cabinet also spoke against President Tinubu in the past. Those things do not bother him, if you care to know,” he said.Bwala also alleged that many of those criticising him over the interview are members of the opposition and their sympathisers.“It does not bother me one bit. Their temporary excitement over the interview will not last, because it does not take away their obvious problem of lack of vision and mission in managing a political party, yet they seek to manage Nigeria,” he said.“Clearly they have no path to victory and no alternative policies or programme for the Nigerian people. If they say they do, they can go to Head to Head and be interrogated on that. As the Hausa saying goes, ‘Ga fili, ga doki.’”He also thanked Nigerians and foreigners who commended what he described as his “brave defence” of the government during the interview.Bwala added that he still has admiration and respect for Mehdi Hassan, whom he described as one of the best debaters in the world, and said he looks forward to a second part of the interview where discussions will focus more on the policies and programmes of the administration.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Al JazeeraBola Tinubu PoliticalDaniel BwalaHead to HeadPast Remarks","published_at":"2026-03-07T23:25:54+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:37+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"e7448bb88a34f7e7beb657a86bd2893f12622764","text_fingerprint":"news al jazeera interview i never knew i would be challenged about my past bwala bwala by baba martins sat 7 mar 2026 23 25 54 wat daniel bwala special adviser to president bola tinubu on media and policy communication has reacted to the backlash that followed his recent interview with mehdi hassan saying his past comments about his principal were made in the context of politics bwala spoke during his appearance on al jazeera s head to head with mehdi hassan held at conway hall in london in a statement issued on saturday the presidential aide said that having accepted to serve the president de","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"0359005e4b0b072d","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/kidnapper-shot-dead-as-troops-rescue-victims-abducted-in-abuja/","title":"Kidnapper Shot Dead As Troops Rescue Victims Abducted In Abuja - Daily Trust","snippet":"Troops of the Nigerian Army have shot dead a suspected kidnapper and rescued 19 abducted victims during a coordinated search-and-rescue operation in the Bwari","content_text":"--> News Kidnapper shot dead as troops rescue victims abducted in Abuja File photo of soldiers By Seun Adeuyi Sat, 7 Mar 2026 22:42:15 WAT Troops of the Nigerian Army have shot dead a suspected kidnapper and rescued 19 abducted victims during a coordinated search-and-rescue operation in the Bwari Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).The operation, conducted around Gidan Dogo, followed intelligence reports on the location of suspected terrorists responsible for the recent abduction of residents in the Byazhin area of Bwari. In a statement on Saturday, the Acting Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, Headquarters Guards Brigade, Captain Olawuyi Itunuoluwa, said the troops carried out the operation in collaboration with operatives of the Nigeria Police Force and local vigilantes.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) “The operation was launched following credible intelligence on the whereabouts of terrorists responsible for the recent abduction of residents from the Byazhin area of Bwari,” Itunuoluwa said. He explained that troops encountered the kidnappers during the operation, leading to a gun battle in which one of the suspects was killed while others escaped with gunshot wounds.“During the operation, troops made contact with the bandits, leading to a firefight in which one of the criminals was neutralised, while others fled the scene with suspected gunshot wounds,” he said.According to him, the troops also recovered weapons from the scene while successfully rescuing all the kidnapped victims.“Further exploitation of the area led to the recovery of one AK-47 rifle and one locally fabricated firearm. Additionally, all 19 kidnapped victims were successfully rescued and evacuated to safety,” he added.Itunuoluwa said the troops had since returned to their base in Bwari while the rescued victims were receiving attention.He added that the Commander of the Guards Brigade, Brig.-Gen. Adebisi Onasanya, commended the troops and other security agencies involved in the operation.“The brigade will continue to intensify operations in collaboration with other security agencies to rid the territory and its environs of terrorism, kidnapping, and other criminal activities,” he said.Onasanya also reiterated the brigade’s commitment to safeguarding residents of the FCT and protecting Abuja as the nation’s seat of power.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. 19 abducted victimsAbujaKidnappertroopsvictims","published_at":"2026-03-07T22:42:15+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:39+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"85bad90c1d85a05a72758840b8107bc5a694424b","text_fingerprint":"news kidnapper shot dead as troops rescue victims abducted in abuja file photo of soldiers by seun adeuyi sat 7 mar 2026 22 42 15 wat troops of the nigerian army have shot dead a suspected kidnapper and rescued 19 abducted victims during a coordinated search and rescue operation in the bwari area council of the federal capital territory fct the operation conducted around gidan dogo followed intelligence reports on the location of suspected terrorists responsible for the recent abduction of residents in the byazhin area of bwari in a statement on saturday the acting assistant director army publ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"27e1cfd0fceecdd1","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/osimhen-upstages-ndidi-scores-winner-for-galatasaray-in-istanbul-derby/","title":"Osimhen Upstages Ndidi, Scores Winner For Galatasaray In Istanbul Derby - Daily Trust","snippet":"Victor Osimhen scored the only goal for Galatasaray in their 1-0 win at Besiktas on Saturday.","content_text":"--> Sports Osimhen upstages Ndidi, scores winner for Galatasaray in Istanbul derby By Daily Trust Sat, 7 Mar 2026 20:39:02 WAT Victor Osimhen scored the only goal for Galatasaray in their 1-0 win at Besiktas on Saturday.The Turkish SuperLig match was a keenly contested Istanbul derby that had Wilfed Ndidi, Super Eagles of Nigeria captain, marshalling midfield for Besiktas, while Osimhen, his vice-captain, led Galatasaray’s attack. And it was Osimhen who had the vital contribution in the heated encounter that saw Leroy Sane sent off in the 62nd minutes, to extend their lead at the top of the tableSPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) The 27-year+old striker was lucky to receive only a yellow card in the sixth minute when he lost control of the ball and stamped the goalkeeper’s knee while trying to put away a goalscoring opportunity. Obasogie cleared of match-fixing, gambling allegation in Tanzania Alkaleri: The new hotbed of banditryHe was also fortunate to escape a second booking for hoofing the ball several seconds after the referee had blown for a foul he committed while trying to break through on goal.Nevertheless Osimhen proved the difference on 39 minutes in the heated encounter, delivering a powerful low header into the net from Sane’s cross to seal Galatasaray’s 1-0 win.Osimhen scored his 11th league goal, and the former Napoli striker has scored in his last four matches in all competitions for Galatasaray.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. GalatasarayIstanbul derbyNdidiupstagesVictor Osimhenwinner","published_at":"2026-03-07T20:39:02+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:41+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"32d3e0b5271232a70faed4c2bf65b3deea845c98","text_fingerprint":"sports osimhen upstages ndidi scores winner for galatasaray in istanbul derby by daily trust sat 7 mar 2026 20 39 02 wat victor osimhen scored the only goal for galatasaray in their 1 0 win at besiktas on saturday the turkish superlig match was a keenly contested istanbul derby that had wilfed ndidi super eagles of nigeria captain marshalling midfield for besiktas while osimhen his vice captain led galatasaray s attack and it was osimhen who had the vital contribution in the heated encounter that saw leroy sane sent off in the 62nd minutes to extend their lead at the top of the tablesponsor ad","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"1bbbda5b43559439","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/russia-flag-raised-in-paralympics-for-the-first-time-in-10-years/","title":"Russia Flag Raised In Paralympics For The First Time In 10 Years - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Russian flag has made a return to podium celebrations at an international Olympics-related event for the first time in 10 years.","content_text":"--> Sports Russia flag raised in Paralympics for the first time in 10 years By Daily Trust Sat, 7 Mar 2026 20:07:12 WAT The Russian flag has made a return to podium celebrations at an international Olympics-related event for the first time in 10 years.The flag was hoisted following podium finish by Russian athletes at the ongoing Milano Cortina 2026 Paralympics. The decision to allow Russia’s participation follows the approval of the International Paralympics Committee at its General Assembly last September.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Russian athletes had been barred from competing under the country’s flag and other national symbols following bans for doping violations since Sochi 2014, and a wider ban adopted since 2023 following the invasion of Ukraine. Obasogie cleared of match-fixing, gambling allegation in Tanzania Osimhen upstages Ndidi, scores winner for Galatasaray in Istanbul derbyThe Russian flag was last hoisted at the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Summer Olympics, and the country is still banned by all other international sporting events, including the IOC/Olympics, FIFA and UEFA.The soviet nation has, however, made a stealthy return on the international stage, with Aleksei Bugaev and Varvara Voronchikhina claiming bronze in the men and women’s downhill standing events respectively.They were cheered on– and celebrated afterwards– by a small group of Russian supporters who waved a single Russian flag.Bugaev who won his first medal since Sochi 2014 told reporters that Russian athletes continued training despite the ban, while first-time paralympian Voronchikhina was happy Russian athletes competed under their flag.“We have been without a flag for a very long time, and I’m really happy about that for my country and ⁠my teammates.”UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. 10 yearsfirst timeparalympicsraisedRussia flag","published_at":"2026-03-07T20:07:12+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:43+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"1c0ea158b948966c2c56036b70a354de474b33a4","text_fingerprint":"sports russia flag raised in paralympics for the first time in 10 years by daily trust sat 7 mar 2026 20 07 12 wat the russian flag has made a return to podium celebrations at an international olympics related event for the first time in 10 years the flag was hoisted following podium finish by russian athletes at the ongoing milano cortina 2026 paralympics the decision to allow russia s participation follows the approval of the international paralympics committee at its general assembly last september sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid div vi 1716478739 innerhtml","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"593823d8e981b862","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/obasogie-cleared-of-match-fixing-gambling-allegation-in-tanzania/","title":"Obasogie Cleared Of Match-fixing, Gambling Allegation In Tanzania - Daily Trust","snippet":"Singida Black Stars of Tanzania has cleared Nigerian goalkeeper, Amas Obasogie, of match-fixing and gambling allegations.","content_text":"--> Sports Obasogie cleared of match-fixing, gambling allegation in Tanzania By Daily Trust Sat, 7 Mar 2026 20:00:51 WAT Singida Black Stars of Tanzania has cleared Nigerian goalkeeper, Amas Obasogie, of match-fixing and gambling allegations.The Super Eagles of Nigeria reserve goalkeeper was declared innocent in a statement released by club CEO, Jonathan Kassano, on Saturday. Obasogie was accused of match-fixing following a string of errors, and the former Bendel Insurance captain was suspended for three months by the club’s disciplinary committee pending investigation into the allegation.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) However, the club has now cleared Obasogie of any wrongdoing following conclusion of preliminary investigations into his performance in league and continental matches. Osimhen upstages Ndidi, scores winner for Galatasaray in Istanbul derby Lokpobiri hails resolution of OPL 245 disputeAccording to the statement, the club revealed that there was no evidence of match-fixing by Obasogie, and suspicious incidents were determined to be technical errors within the game.“After the preliminary investigation, the player’s defense and a reliable statement from the Club’s General Manager, it has been determined that there is no evidence of match-fixing or gambling. “The incidents that raised the concerns have been determined to be technical errors within the game.”The club added that the goalkeeper has apologized for poor performance, his three-month suspension has been reversed, and the player has been reinstated into the team.“In light of this, the Club has decided to reverse the previous decision to suspend the player for three months, and the player has been allowed to continue his duties with the team.”Obasogie has been with the Black Stars for a year, since joining from the Ethiopian League.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Amas Obasogieclearedgambling allegationmatch-fixingTanzania","published_at":"2026-03-07T20:00:51+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:45+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"2965289ba921b03b742b93d5a82233b9120104b4","text_fingerprint":"sports obasogie cleared of match fixing gambling allegation in tanzania by daily trust sat 7 mar 2026 20 00 51 wat singida black stars of tanzania has cleared nigerian goalkeeper amas obasogie of match fixing and gambling allegations the super eagles of nigeria reserve goalkeeper was declared innocent in a statement released by club ceo jonathan kassano on saturday obasogie was accused of match fixing following a string of errors and the former bendel insurance captain was suspended for three months by the club s disciplinary committee pending investigation into the allegation sponsor ad viapi","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"1ca7d802a74ed413","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/army-buries-soldiers-murdered-by-terrorists/","title":"Army Buries Soldiers Murdered By Terrorists - Daily Trust","snippet":"Troops of Joint Task Force (North East) Operation HADIN KAI (OPHK) have buried soldiers killed during an encounter with Boko Haram terrorists in Borno State.","content_text":"--> Top Story Army buries soldiers murdered by terrorists Kits belonging to fallen soldiers By Hamisu Kabir Matazu Sat, 7 Mar 2026 18:44:54 WAT Troops of Joint Task Force (North East) Operation HADIN KAI (OPHK) have buried soldiers killed during an encounter with Boko Haram terrorists in Borno State.The solemn burial ceremony took place at the Maimalari Military Cantonment Cemetery in Maiduguri this weekend. In a statement, the spokesman of the Operation Lt. Col. Sani Uba, disclosed that the Theatre Commander of Operation Hadin Kai, Major General Abdulsalam Abubakar, described the occasion as a painful reminder of the sacrifices of the military to the nation.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) “In the profession of arms, there are moments of victory that fill us with pride and affirm the strength, courage and unity that define our service. Yet there are also solemn moments that weigh heavily on our hearts and remind us of the true cost of service, as we have witnessed today,” he was quoted to have said. Osimhen upstages Ndidi, scores winner for Galatasaray in Istanbul derby Zulum: Insurgents hit Ngoshe After Being Chased from SambisaMajor General Abubakar said the fallen troops demonstrated courage, selflessness and unwavering dedication to duty, noting that their sacrifices were not only losses to their families but also to the theatre, the Nigerian Army, the Armed Forces of Nigeria and the entire nation.According to him, they gave their lives in devotion to a cause greater than themselves – the nation, the people and the ideals they swore to defend. They were brave, loyal and courageous patriots whose sacrifices will never be forgotten.The Theatre Commander added that the troops fought with valour and upheld the finest traditions of the Nigerian Army and the Armed Forces of Nigeria.“They endured hardship so that our flag would continue to fly high. Their sacrifices remind us that freedom is not free; it is secured by the steadfast resolve of patriots willing to place duty above self,” he stated.Major General Abubakar assured the families of the fallen soldiers that their sacrifices would not be in vain, adding that all entitlements due to the deceased personnel would be processed promptly to support their families.He also extended condolences on behalf of the Chief of Defence Staff, the Chief of Army Staff and the Armed Forces of Nigeria to the families of the fallen heroes.Also speaking, the Governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, represented by the Executive Secretary of the Borno State Security Trust Fund, Alhaji Mustapha Ali Yabe, expressed condolences to the Armed Forces of Nigeria and Operation HADIN KAI.Professor Zulum assured that the Borno State Government would continue to support the families of the fallen heroes and the military in the discharge of its constitutional responsibilities.The ceremony was attended by top government officials from Borno State, senior military officers from the Headquarters Theatre Command and 7 Division Nigerian Army, the Commander of 25 Task Force Brigade, the Chairman of Damboa Local Government Area, as well as families and next of kin of the deceased personnel.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. ArmyBornoburiesMurderedSoldiersterrorists","published_at":"2026-03-07T18:44:54+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:47+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"d5ae4ade31bd54db2a5a17b639beb34c142f3d4a","text_fingerprint":"top story army buries soldiers murdered by terrorists kits belonging to fallen soldiers by hamisu kabir matazu sat 7 mar 2026 18 44 54 wat troops of joint task force north east operation hadin kai ophk have buried soldiers killed during an encounter with boko haram terrorists in borno state the solemn burial ceremony took place at the maimalari military cantonment cemetery in maiduguri this weekend in a statement the spokesman of the operation lt col sani uba disclosed that the theatre commander of operation hadin kai major general abdulsalam abubakar described the occasion as a painful remind","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"2a4ca7bbe9e224e7","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/fg-approves-50000-additional-slots-for-2026-nysc-mobilisation/","title":"FG Approves 50,000 Additional Slots For 2026 NYSC Mobilisation - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Federal Government has approved an additional 50,000 slots for the 2026 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Mobilisation in response to the growing number","content_text":"--> News FG approves 50,000 additional slots for 2026 NYSC mobilisation Corps member at the NYSC permanent orientation camp at Ede By Maureen Onochie Sat, 7 Mar 2026 18:28:09 WAT The Federal Government has approved an additional 50,000 slots for the 2026 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Mobilisation in response to the growing number of graduates awaiting enlistment for the national service.The Director-General of the NYSC, Brigadier General Olakunle Nafiu, disclosed this in Abuja during the inauguration of the remodelled Clinic at the Scheme’s National Directorate Headquarters, in commemoration of the first anniversary of his assumption of duty as its Chief Executive. According to a statement signed by the Scheme’s Director of Information and Public Relations, Caroline Embu, the NYSC DG noted that the extra slots had already been captured in the Scheme’s 2026 budget.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) He added that further provisions had been secured in the Federal Government’s 2027 budget cycle to improve the quality of Corps members’ kits, feeding and transportation allowances. Zulum: Insurgents Strike Ngoshe After Being Chased from Sambisa Petrol hits ₦1,080 per litre in LagosHe said the Scheme was targeting the mobilisation of about 450,000 prospective Corps members this year while remaining mindful of their safety.“This year, we are mobilising about 450,000 prospective Corps members and, as much as possible, we avoid deploying them to red zones. We remain mindful because we owe parents the responsibility of safeguarding the lives of their children,” he said.He explained that the remodelling and upgrade of the headquarters clinic was part of his administration’s initiatives aimed at improving staff welfare and efficiency.Reviewing other accomplishments made under his leadership in the past year, Nafiu said the 2025 staff promotion exercise was conducted to enhance career progression and boost morale within the Scheme.Nafiu added that peculiar allowances were facilitated for staff, retirement benefits were paid to disengaged personnel, and a recruitment exercise was successfully carried out to strengthen the organisation’s operational capacity.He also disclosed that the Scheme secured the donation of a compressed natural gas (CNG) bus to enhance mobility for both staff and Corps members.Nafiu said efforts were underway to reposition the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) programme through strategic partnerships.According to him, the Scheme has partnered with the Enterprise Development Centre of Pan-Atlantic University to digitise the SAED platform.He added that the present Management had also collaborated with the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), the Association of Local Government Chairmen of Nigeria (ALGON), and other stakeholders to strengthen support for the Scheme.In his remarks, the Minister of Youth Development, Comrade Ayodele Olawande, who inaugurated the remodelled clinic, said the upgraded facility would improve staff welfare and enhance productivity.Olawande assured that the Ministry of Youth Development would continue to support the Scheme in delivering greater impact for Nigerian youths.“We are working to transform and reform the NYSC. We are doing everything possible to secure the future of our Corps members,” the minister said.He also advised Corps members to avoid travelling at night.“When you are travelling and it is getting late, locate the nearest military barracks, police station or NYSC office and spend the night there,” he advised.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. 2026additional slotsapprovesFGNYSC mobilisation","published_at":"2026-03-07T18:28:09+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:49+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"fd5f46f1bf1a637a7bf6e036062c2e7a73a44752","text_fingerprint":"news fg approves 50 000 additional slots for 2026 nysc mobilisation corps member at the nysc permanent orientation camp at ede by maureen onochie sat 7 mar 2026 18 28 09 wat the federal government has approved an additional 50 000 slots for the 2026 national youth service corps nysc mobilisation in response to the growing number of graduates awaiting enlistment for the national service the director general of the nysc brigadier general olakunle nafiu disclosed this in abuja during the inauguration of the remodelled clinic at the scheme s national directorate headquarters in commemoration of th","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"28974275c0a85459","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/zulum-insurgents-strike-ngoshe-after-being-chased-from-sambisa/","title":"Zulum: Insurgents Hit Ngoshe After Being Chased From Sambisa - Daily Trust","snippet":"Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Umara Zulum, has said the attack on Ngoshe in Gwoza Local Government Area was a result of insurgents being pushed from","content_text":"--> News Zulum: Insurgents hit Ngoshe After Being Chased from Sambisa By Hamisu Kabir Matazu, Maiduguri Sat, 7 Mar 2026 18:20:59 WAT Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Umara Zulum, has said the attack on Ngoshe in Gwoza Local Government Area was a result of insurgents being pushed from their Sambisa strongholds.The governor made the remark during a visit to the community to commiserate with the families who lost their loved ones in the attack. Scores of residents and soldiers were killed when terrorists attacked Ngoshe community in Gwoza Local Government Area, destroying both public and private property.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Zulum, who commiserated with the people in Pulka on Friday, said his visit was to meet the families that lost their loved ones, describing the incident as tragic. Vandals Arrested With Stolen Electric Cables in Nasarawa Death toll in Benue LGA attacks rises to 24He noted that the government would soon restore security in the area and provide humanitarian support to the victims.“We are here today to commiserate with the people of Ngoshe that have lost their loved ones following the unfortunate incident that occurred on Tuesday. The situation is very sad and our hearts go out to all those affected by this tragedy,” Zulum said.“I want to assure you that we will do everything possible to address the unfortunate situation that has befallen this community. And for those who have been abducted, the Nigerian military will do everything within its capacity to rescue them,” Zulum assured.Governor Zulum explained that military operations are currently ongoing in Ngoshe and the Sambisa Forest to rid the area of criminal elements.“There are ongoing military operations within the Sambisa Game Reserve. What we witnessed yesterday was largely a result of insurgents being pushed out from their strongholds, which led them to launch coordinated attacks on nearby communities,” he explained.He called on the Nigerian Army to intensify operations to clear insurgents from the Mandara Hills, which he described as a major security threat.“The Mandara Hills remain a major security concern. The insurgents descended from the hills to attack this town. Therefore, I call on the Nigerian Army and the Federal Government to intensify efforts to clear Mandara Hills of insurgents,” Zulum said.The governor noted that the exact number of casualties is yet to be confirmed as assessments were still ongoing, but acknowledged that several lives were lost, with many others abducted.As part of immediate humanitarian intervention, Zulum said the state government had begun the distribution of relief materials and establishing cooking points to provide food for displaced residents.“For now, we will distribute food items to those affected and I have directed that coking points be established so that everyone in this community can receive meals from a central kitchen,” he said.The governor appealed to residents to remain calm and law-abiding, noting that Borno State government would double its efforts to curb the situation.“We shall not relent in our commitment to restoring lasting peace and stability in the state,” he said.“I strongly believe that with sustained military operations and cooperation between all levels of government, we will overcome this challenge. Insha Allah, peace will return fully to our land,” the governor added.Similarly, Governor Zulum inspected houses burned during an attack by Boko Haram insurgents on Thursday in Konduga town.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Gov ZulumInsurgentsNgoshepushedSambisastrike","published_at":"2026-03-07T18:20:59+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:51+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"93ecf0e614f863103b26ccc3f09591aefcd15893","text_fingerprint":"news zulum insurgents hit ngoshe after being chased from sambisa by hamisu kabir matazu maiduguri sat 7 mar 2026 18 20 59 wat borno state governor prof babagana umara zulum has said the attack on ngoshe in gwoza local government area was a result of insurgents being pushed from their sambisa strongholds the governor made the remark during a visit to the community to commiserate with the families who lost their loved ones in the attack scores of residents and soldiers were killed when terrorists attacked ngoshe community in gwoza local government area destroying both public and private property","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"073da7d6a698c291","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/alkaleri-the-new-hotbed-of-banditry/","title":"Alkaleri: The New Hotbed Of Banditry - Daily Trust","snippet":"A new wave of bandit attacks is sweeping across many communities in Bauchi State, leaving deaths, abductions and massive displacements in its trail. In recent","content_text":"--> Feature | Top Story Alkaleri: The new hotbed of banditry By Yusha’u A. Ibrahim, Bauchi Sat, 7 Mar 2026 18:18:25 WAT A new wave of bandit attacks is sweeping across many communities in Bauchi State, leaving deaths, abductions and massive displacements in its trail. In recent weeks, tens of locals have been killed, injured or abducted as residents abandon their homes in droves for dear life, Weekend Trust has learnt. Over the past two years, parts of Darazo and Burra District, Darazo and Ningi local government areas of the state have witnessed attacks, despite efforts by the security agencies to contain the situation. The violence is now spreading across Alkaleri LGA, affecting several communities and leaving scores of people, including security personnel, dead and several others injured. More recently, communities in Gwana and Duguri districts in Alkaleri have witnessed a series of killings and abductions. Other affected communities are Digare, Kargo, Yelo, Kare-Kare, Digau, Tabanni, Ruga, Bunga, Futuk and Mansur. Many residents have since relocated for safety.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) On Sunday, February 22, at about 5:30 p.m., bandits in large numbers invaded Gwana community on motorcycles. They first engaged soldiers at a military camp in a gun battle, reportedly killing two soldiers and forcing others to flee the camp. Nothing wrong with president relying on some men – Dr Bewaji How to apply windfall from Executive Order 9The bandits later moved into the community, where they murdered five people and abducted five others, including one Jarman Gwana, ‘Titi Gwana and Adamu Danladi Gwana. As of the time of filing this report, the abducted victims are still in captivity.Adamu’s father, Malam Danladi Gwana, told Weekend Trust that banditry had been on the increase in Alkaleri in recent days, noting that dozens of residents had deserted their communities due to incessant attacks.“The attackers strike at any time they so wish; they visit us both day and night. Anytime they come, they kill, abduct and loot our belongings, especially foodstuffs and provisions. When they first came to Gwana community on Thursday (February 19), they killed five people, including a married woman, and abducted five others. However, we suspect that their mission in Gwana was to kill my younger brother Adamu because when they arrived around 1 pm, they went straight to our family house looking for him.“Unfortunately, when they reached our house, Adamu was sitting in front of the house. They even passed him when suddenly one of them pointed at him. On hearing this, Adamu ran into the house and they fired shots at him, but he managed to escape through the back door. They abducted his (Adamu’s) wives and my son Adamu.“On their way out of the community, they kidnapped a couple and their neighbour. So, in all, the attackers killed five people and abducted five others. Our people have deserted their homes and relocated to Gombe, Kashere and Futuk communities for safety,” Danladi explained.Malam Muhammad Sani, a resident of Kafin-Duguri, another village attacked by the bandits on Friday, February 20, said the assailants came from the popular Dajin Mada Forest, killed four members of the community and injured seven others.However, he said luck ran out of the bandits as over 20 of them were gunned down by the local hunters who engaged them, recalling that “no one can tell how the bandits managed to enter the village unnoticed. We only saw them in the middle of the village while we were preparing to observe the sunset prayers.”“They started shooting sporadically into the air to scare people. They attempted to rustle our cows and other domestic animals, but we resisted. Our local vigilantes and hunters engaged them in a gun fight. Twenty bandits were killed, but four members of the community, a female and three males, paid the supreme price, while several other people from our side sustained varying degrees of injury. We fought them for almost an hour before they finally retreated.“My younger brother, Yusha’u Aliyu, and one Umaru Barde were shot in the legs. My sister-in-law, who is pregnant, was also shot in the stomach. The bandits injured seven people. As I speak with you, we stay awake all night guarding our village. We have taken our wives and children to safer places. The assailants rustled 57 cows and snatched three motorbikes during the attack. This is the situation we are in now. This is the first attack on the Kafin-Duguri community,” Sani added.He lamented the absence of a standby security team in Duguri, noting that security personnel are only deployed for patrol or based on requests. Sani, however, commended Governor Bala Mohammed for his prompt response after the attack, saying the governor had not only visited the community but also donated to the affected families. According to him, the governor donated N1.5m each to the families who lost their loved ones and N500,000 each to those of the injured victims.Also, a resident of Digare, who preferred anonymity, told Weekend Trust that banditry activities resurfaced in the area about three months ago, but the frequency of attacks had been high in recent weeks. He said though there is the presence of security personnel in some major towns across Alkaleri, the bandits wield superior weapons.“The first time they came to Digare, they killed a woman and kidnapped six people, including one Tijjani Ahmad alias Shekarau, but they later abandoned two of the abducted persons – a minor and an aged woman – at the entrance of the village. Two days later, the bandits demanded N40m ransom for Shekarau. They slashed the amount to N5m after long bargaining with his family and demanded N3m for the release of a man and his two wives.“Again, two weeks ago, the bandits invaded a neighboring village called Malla and abducted a community leader known as Jauro. Unfortunately, they killed the man after collecting N5m ransom from his family. As I’m speaking with you, villages and communities like Mansur, Digau, Kare-Kare, Tabanni, Yelo, Ruga, Futuk, Bunga, Kargo, and Digare were all empty. The occupants have relocated to other places for safety. From Tabanni village to Karim LGA of Taraba State is about 80km, but at present, all the villages in between have been deserted. The bandits have displaced the occupants,” he said.Malam Musa Shehu, a resident of Kargo, also told Weekend Trust that virtually all the villages around Mansur were empty, as the residents had relocated to safer places for fear of attacks. He recalled that the bandits stormed the village on Thursday Februrary 19, after raiding Gale, a neighbouring community, the same day. “Luckily, our local hunters engaged them in a gun battle, but they succeeded in abducting only a woman. On Sunday, the bandits stormed Digare and Gwana communities and attacked Mansur community the next day. We learnt that they also attacked Bunga village on the same Sunday, killing one person and rustling domestic animals before proceeding to Tabanni village, where they abducted scores of people.“The Tabanni people resorted to spiritual intervention by inviting some Islamic scholars for a special prayer session. Unfortunately for the community, the bandits returned the following day and abducted some of the Islamic scholars invited for the special prayers.“They killed five security personnel: soldiers and civil defense officials at a security camp in Mansur. They also burnt two patrol vans belonging to the military and police, respectively. On Tuesday, the bandits returned to Mansur and looted some shops housing food items. On the same day, they stormed Kargo and Digare communities, but they only broke some shops and carted away food items.” Shehu lamented that virtually all the villages that shared borders with Plateau and Taraba states had been deserted and their occupants relocated to Yelo, Yobe, Gombe, Kashere and Futuk, which are relatively safe.Our reporter gathered that banditry attacks occur almost daily across Gwana and Duguri districts respectively. According to a resident of Gwana, Yusuf Ibrahim, bandits could be seen moving freely across Bauchi communities that share boundaries with Dajin Madam in Karim LGA of Taraba state and some communities in Plateau state. Pattern of attacksThe bandits’ mode of operation in the affected Bauchi communities is similar to what transpires in Zamfara, Katsina and Sokoto states. The attackers, our reporter gathered, typically invade the targeted communities in large numbers on motorcycles. Upon arrival, they open fire indiscriminately, causing panic among residents to force them to flee their homes.The bandits also don’t have a specific time for operation; they operate at night and in broad daylight, killing and abducting their victims during operations. Residents, however, noted that unlike in Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto and Kebbi states, the bandits had not started placing levies on the communities in Bauchi state. A resident of Gwana, Muhammad Musa, said, “We have never heard of where the bandits place a levy on a community in Bauchi. They kill, abduct, collect ransom, rustle animals and loot items, especially food items and provisions, but they don’t place ransom on communities. We are still going to our farms freely because the bandits did not stop us from cultivating our farmlands.“We observed that the bandits are not originally from Bauchi because most of them don’t know the terrain in Bauchi. Only a few of them know Bauchi because they always move around with some guides and this indicates that the majority of them are not from this area.“I hope the government will take advantage of this to crush these people before they understand the terrain. If the bandits can cause the level of destruction despite their ignorance of the terrain, tell me what the situation would be when they fully understand the terrain?” Reasons behind attacksWeekend Trust gathered that the renewed banditry attacks on communities across Darazo, Alkaleri and Ningi LGAs might not be unconnected with the arrest and continued detention of one Kachalla Gambo, alleged repentant bandits’ kingpin. Gambo had allegedly repented and returned to Mansur village where he lives with his family. However, about two months ago, he was invited by the police and since then, has not returned.Further findings revealed that when Gambo’s younger brother went for his bail, he was also detained. A resident of the Mansur community, who preferred anonymity, told our reporter that “it was after this incident we started witnessing deadly attacks across major towns and villages in Alkaleri.” “We learnt that Gambo’s younger brother, Kachalla Auta, is allegedly masterminding the recent attacks on our communities with a view to compelling the government to release his brothers. Someone, who is negotiating with bandits for the release of his uncle, confirmed that the bandit he was communicating with once told him that we will never have peace in our communities until Gambo and his brother are released,” he added.However, a reliable source and security expert, who preferred to be anonymous, confided in Weekend Trust that the recent attacks on communities in Darazo were connected to the ongoing dispute over a traditional title, saying, “It is purely family affairs, but unfortunately, the crisis was attributed to banditry.”“Even the recent attack in Duguri is only being amplified by some actors, especially the security personnel, to get money from the government. It is not possible to have an influx of over 10,000 bandits into Duguri community within a short time. There is no way such a huge number of people can move into such a town without being noticed.“So, I think something must be done to get to the root of the matter. The government should investigate the matter thoroughly and get to the root of the matter to address it once and for all; otherwise, the attack will continue to escalate to other communities. The sooner the government faces this matter, the better for the communities affected, the state and indeed the federal government,” the source stated. Police reactThe Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Command, SP Nafi’u Habib, confirmed banditry attacks across Alkaleri LGA of the state, but said the situation was under control as more security personnel had been deployed to the affected communities to protect locals.The police spokesperson also reaffirmed synergy among personnel of the Joint Task Force operating in the state, saying, “With ongoing coordinated operations by the Joint Task Force, we will end banditry in the state. I’m appealing to personnel of the sister security agencies to remain resolute in the ongoing fight against banditry in Bauchi state.He added, “Beyond deployment of security personnel, heavy war weapons were provided to security personnel operating in the affected communities to enable them to counter any attempt by the bandits to attack the community. With superior weaponry, our security personnel can contain the situation within a short time. So, I can assure the general public that security agencies are up and doing in protecting their lives and properties.“However, the security agencies largely rely on intelligence to win the war. There is no way we can defeat the bandits without getting reliable and accurate intelligence about their activities. So, I am appealing to the general public to always support the security agencies by providing them with useful information about the bandits. This will greatly help in handling the situation.“The public should rest assured that the identity of anybody who provides intelligence to security agencies will be duly protected. People should feel free to provide intelligence to security personnel. The issue of insecurity requires a collective approach and the community’s vital role in the crusade is to provide intelligence to security.”SP Habib also appealed to the public not to panic whenever there is a banditry attack on the community, saying, “This is one of the problems we are facing. Sometimes, people spread rumours of attacks and people panic unnecessarily.“Also, whenever people are relocating to safer communities, they should always be mindful of the people they are going to because criminal elements may disguise and hide themselves in those communities as displaced persons.” Defend yourselves, Bauchi Gov tells residentsThe Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala A. Mohammed, has urged the people affected by the recent banditry attacks in Alkaleri to be brave and defend themselves, saying the government is ready to support them to win the fight. The governor stated this while addressing some displaced persons in Duguri community, Alkaleri.He said, “All you need from the government is to support you to fight these bandits. We must provide you with the desired weapons to protect yourselves. We will also direct the security personnel to give you the necessary training to fight the bandits. But you have to stay in your communities and protect yourselves. No one will fight this war for you.“Recently, the bandits invaded Kafin Duguri and the people engaged them in a fight; the bandits killed four members of the community, but over 20 bandits were killed. So, you need to face these bandits squarely. You are brave people and I’m sure you can fight this war. No matter what, you have to go back to your villages and towns and face the bandits. We will support you to win the fight by the grace of God. The bandits’ mission is to exploit our wealth.“They learnt about the discovery of oil in Bauchi and Gombe, so they want to exploit this untapped resource. That is why we banned illegal mining in the state, because the bandits have abducted hundreds of illegal miners and forced them into banditry. So, the bandits came to take over our lands to exploit our God-given resources.“You don’t have any place to call home apart from your communities. Look at it now, the primary school accommodating you as displaced persons is grossly inadequate to contain all of you. So, where are we running to? Wallahi, we will not go anywhere; we will rather stay and die in our communities. Nobody is going to force us to leave our communities. We should get prepared and go back to our communities. It is not an easy fight, but we have to be brave and face the criminals. Those who were killed died as martyrs. We don’t have any place that is better than where we were born.” Govt, locals must work together –Ex-GeneralA former military officer, Brigadier General B. M. Ibrahim (rtd), maintained that the issue of banditry in Bauchi requires a holistic approach, saying individuals, communities, local, state and federal governments must put heads together to address the situation before it goes out of control.General Ibrahim said although the bandits had already dominated a vast forest stretching through Yankari, Wase in Plateau state and some parts of Taraba state, if the government at all levels can work together, the situation will be brought under control.“It is unfortunate that these bandits have dominated the forest. But the government can still fight them. What they are doing is criminal, so the issue of negotiating with them doesn’t even arise. So, individual levels should report activities of the bandits to security agencies, while our communities should not cooperate with criminals. They should also support the government with intelligence.“Our local government authorities should ensure adequate provisions of shelter and food to the displaced persons in their territories. The local government should ensure that the displaced persons are being taken care of. The state government should support the local government in handling the situation, and also provide logistics to security personnel operating in our communities.“The federal government, on its part, should establish a strong intelligence network for our security agencies. Modern facilities, such as drones and other related facilities for intelligence gathering, should be provided to our personnel. This will greatly help them in winning the war,” he said.The retired General further said the government should also treat this problem from the perspective of the economy. According to him, banditry has a strong connection to the nation’s socio-economic situation.He said: “Whether we like it or not, banditry is part of our socio-economic problems; therefore, the government must be present, especially in our rural communities, by providing the rural communities with their basic needs. Our communities as they are now are conducive to criminality.“The government must also reduce the level of unemployment and poverty in the country. We have millions of unemployed youths across our communities and everybody knows the danger of idle minds. If we can do all these, I am sure banditry could be addressed within a short time.” UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. abductionAlkaleriBanditryBauchiMansurnew hotbed","published_at":"2026-03-07T18:18:25+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T07:42:53+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"b884c4a47aba9833b6f6570a7d750e3f4db75aee","text_fingerprint":"feature top story alkaleri the new hotbed of banditry by yusha u a ibrahim bauchi sat 7 mar 2026 18 18 25 wat a new wave of bandit attacks is sweeping across many communities in bauchi state leaving deaths abductions and massive displacements in its trail in recent weeks tens of locals have been killed injured or abducted as residents abandon their homes in droves for dear life weekend trust has learnt over the past two years parts of darazo and burra district darazo and ningi local government areas of the state have witnessed attacks despite efforts by the security agencies to contain the sit","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"7984231fca06ce76","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/sports/nigeria-sports-news/862373-nbbf-aspirant-igoche-mark-pledges-unity-growth-for-nigerian-basketball.html","title":"NBBF aspirant Igoche Mark pledges unity, growth for Nigerian basketball","snippet":"Mr Mark said his administration, if elected, would focus on harnessing that collective strength to improve basketball development across the country.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Igoche Mark NBBF aspirant Igoche Mark pledges unity, growth for Nigerian basketball Mr Mark said his administration, if elected, would focus on harnessing that collective strength to improve basketball development across the country. byPress Release March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read Igoche Mark, a basketball promoter and founder of the Mark D’Ball Basketball Championship, has outlined his reasons for seeking the presidency of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), saying his priority would be to restore unity within the sport’s leadership. Speaking with journalists in Abuja over the weekend, Mr Mark said divisions among key figures in the game have hindered the growth of basketball in Nigeria, stressing that bringing everyone together would be his first task if elected. “The first thing I will do when elected as president of NBBF is to unite the house. We must come together because a house divided against itself cannot stand,” he said. According to him, Nigeria has abundant basketball talent and influence within the global basketball ecosystem, but the country must channel that strength into developing the game locally. “Every individual in this sport has something unique to offer. We are very versatile; there’s no place you go to in the world without seeing a Nigerian doing exploits in the basketball ecosystem,” he said. Mr Mark said his administration, if elected, would focus on harnessing that collective strength to improve basketball development nationwide. “We must be intentional by channelling all our energy to positively develop the game at home, and that responsibility falls on me when elected as president of NBBF,” he added. Responding to experience concerns Mr Mark also addressed concerns from critics who argue that he lacks the experience required to lead the federation. He dismissed the claim, noting that leadership of a sports federation is a collective responsibility carried out by a board rather than an individual. READ ALSO: Osimhen should have been sent off in Istanbul derby – Yalçın “Opportunity must be first presented to an individual before experience is gained. Running a federation like the NBBF is not a one-person affair but by a board,” he said. He also questioned the basis for such criticism, noting that none of the federation’s former presidents is currently contesting the position. “I think that claim makes no logical sense because I don’t think any former NBBF president is in the race,” he added. Mr Mark is one of the figures positioning themselves ahead of the next leadership contest in Nigerian basketball, as the basketball family continues to push for stability and renewed growth in the sport. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Nigeria’s renewed closeness with France did not start under Tinubu — French Ambassador Press Release All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T15:42:56+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:22+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"f36ae86a11f4e0aa7dee4c57fc7e2ea1c978556b","text_fingerprint":"advertisement igoche mark nbbf aspirant igoche mark pledges unity growth for nigerian basketball mr mark said his administration if elected would focus on harnessing that collective strength to improve basketball development across the country bypress release march 8 2026 reading time 2 mins read igoche mark a basketball promoter and founder of the mark d ball basketball championship has outlined his reasons for seeking the presidency of the nigeria basketball federation nbbf saying his priority would be to restore unity within the sport s leadership speaking with journalists in abuja over the","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"39a542cef6a0d6a4","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/862371-nigerias-renewed-closeness-with-france-did-not-start-under-tinubu-french-ambassador.html","title":"Nigeria’s renewed closeness with France did not start under Tinubu — French Ambassador","snippet":"France has been Mr Tinubu’s top destination since taking office.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Nigerian President, Bola Tinubu was hosted by French President, Emmanuel Macron during his leave in France Nigeria’s renewed closeness with France did not start under Tinubu — French Ambassador France has been Mr Tinubu’s top destination since taking office. byBeloved John March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 3 mins read Nigeria’s renewed relationship with France is not a recent foreign policy decision, but rather predates the Bola Tinubu administration, the French Ambassador, Marc Fonbaustier, has stated. The ambassador said this in an interview with PREMIUM TIMES, in response to a question on the popular assumption in Nigeria that France was shifting its focus to Nigeria as it grew increasingly unpopular among Francophone African countries in West Africa. Under President Bola Tinubu’s administration, Nigeria’s relations with France appear to be deepening. France has been Mr Tinubu’s top destination since taking office, and some of these trips have been to seek bilateral and multilateral partnerships. In an exclusive interview with PREMIUM TIMES, the French Ambassador, Marc Fonbaustier, said the improved relations between the two countries date back to the early years of the Fourth Republic. He said the relations started to improve as France expanded its attention from its former colonies to other countries in West Africa. Mr Fonbaustier said that this shift occurred under the administrations of ex-French President Francois Mitterrand and, later, President Jacques Chirac, between the 1990s and 2000s. “We have been shifting towards English-speaking countries for a long time. It was in the 90s, when we thought we were not sufficiently present in former British or Dutch colonies and that we needed to be more present,” he said. Mr Fonbaustier stated that France began pushing to strengthen its ties with Nigeria after Nigeria’s return to civilian rule in 2000. He recalled that one of the first high-level visits of Nigeria’s first democratic president president of the Fourth Republic, Olusegun Obasanjo, was to France. The diplomatic trip opened the door to renewed engagement between the two countries. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo [Photo credit: Ventures Africa]Nigeria’s relations with France were once tense and distant. France traditionally focused on its former colonies in West and Central Africa (the Françafrique network). At the same time, Nigeria positioned itself as an independent Anglophone power wary of France’s influence in the region. France began to improve its relationship with Nigeria in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when it found the need for closer cooperation to be strategic to its interests. Over the years, relations grew stronger. France eventually became regarded as one of Nigeria’s key Western partners, particularly after the rise of the jihadist insurgency in the Lake Chad region. Former Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari made several official visits to France, including a working visit in 2015 with then French President François Hollande to discuss defence, security, trade, and economic relations. About a year later, Mr Hollande made an official visit to Nigeria to attend and support the Second Regional Security Summit hosted by Mr Buhari. In 2021, Mr Buhari was hosted by French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris for a working lunch, during which both leaders discussed bilateral relations, regional security, and economic cooperation. Late President Muhammadu Buhari On this, Mr Fonbaustier said, “We have fostered the pace. It’s been fostered like this during the term of President Hollande, who came to visit you, and President Buhari made a reciprocal state visit to France.” “Now, there was the state visit of President Tinubu. What I want to illustrate is that it has a long history. It did not start at all with anything linked to Francophone countries,” he stated. The ambassador reiterated that France’s aim remains to expand its presence and relations with “all of Africa.” France’s relations with AES France’s relations with its former colonies in the Sahel have been strained over the past few years. Its influence deteriorated with the rise of military rule in Mali, Niger, and Burkina Faso, as successive coups undermined the political frameworks that had enabled strong Franco-Sahel cooperation. The military-led governments perceived France’s diplomatic and military presence as a challenge to their sovereignty and a reminder of colonial-era dominance. The states expelled French troops, ending long‑standing military cooperation that had been central to Paris’s Sahel security strategy. In 2025, the leader of the Burkina Faso Junta referred to France as an imperialist force that the continent must be rid of. He accused French President Macron of “insulting all Africans” after Mr Macron suggested that some African nations had been ungrateful for French military assistance. He said this remark reveals how France views Africans as “less than human.” Nigeria’s relations with junta-led Sahel states Nigeria’s relations with three junta-led Sahel states — Mali, Niger, and Burkina Faso — are also strained. The states have also criticised Nigeria’s relations with France. The Niger military leader, Abdourahmane Tiani, had earlier accused Nigeria of colluding with France to destabilise the country. He claimed France, with Nigeria’s knowledge, was allying with militant groups in the Lake Chad region to undermine Niger’s security. “Nigerian authorities are not unaware of this underhanded move,” Mr Tiani had said. READ ALSO: INTERVIEW: France’s presence in Africa has never been so big, despite AES – French Ambassador PREMIUM TIMES reported that the junta also blamed the Nigerian for an attack on the Niger-Benin oil pipeline. But Nigeria has denied these claims. The National Security Adviser, Nuhu Ribadu, described the allegations as “baseless” and “false”. After forming the Alliance of Sahel states, the West African nations officially withdrew from the Nigeria-led Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). This decision followed months of tension between the countries and the regional bloc. The juntas in all three nations had accused ECOWAS of failing to support them in their fight against terrorism and of imposing sanctions that they claim harmed their populations. They also rejected ECOWAS’ request to reconsider their decision to leave the bloc. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post IWD: ADC reserves 40% party positions for women at all levels – Spokesperson Next Post NBBF aspirant Igoche Mark pledges unity, growth for Nigerian basketball Beloved John All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T15:32:31+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:25+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"9580b8560f00deaa2d69e584e08db4ad568fd2dd","text_fingerprint":"advertisement nigerian president bola tinubu was hosted by french president emmanuel macron during his leave in france nigeria s renewed closeness with france did not start under tinubu french ambassador france has been mr tinubu s top destination since taking office bybeloved john march 8 2026 reading time 3 mins read nigeria s renewed relationship with france is not a recent foreign policy decision but rather predates the bola tinubu administration the french ambassador marc fonbaustier has stated the ambassador said this in an interview with premium times in response to a question on the po","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"4a800b4df42c9078","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/862368-iwd-adc-reserves-40-party-positions-for-women-at-all-levels-spokesperson.html","title":"IWD: ADC reserves 40% party positions for women at all levels – Spokesperson","snippet":":Mr Abdullahi noted that Nigerian women carry a disproportionate share of the nation’s social and economic responsibilities but remain significantly underrepresented in key national institutions.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Bolaji Abdullahi IWD: ADC reserves 40% party positions for women at all levels – Spokesperson Mr Abdullahi noted that Nigerian women carry a disproportionate share of the nation’s social and economic responsibilities but remain significantly underrepresented in key national institutions. byAgency Report March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The African Democratic Congress (ADC) says it has reserved 40 per cent of its positions for women across all structures to reaffirm its commitment to gender inclusion and leadership participation. This was contained in a statement by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Bolaji Abdullahi, to commemorate International Women’s Day (IWD), issued in Abuja on Sunday. Mr Abdullahi said the ADC recognised women as partners in nation-building, noting that across Nigeria, women shoulder enormous responsibilities within homes, communities, and workplaces. According to him, any political movement genuinely committed to national progress must recognise, empower, and harness the strength, resilience, and leadership potential of women. He stated that the composition of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) reflects a deliberate commitment to ensuring women are not pushed to political margins. “This is because we are the p political party in Nigeria whose constitution reserves 40 per cent of all party positions, at every level, for women,” Mr Abdullahi stated. He reaffirmed the party’s commitment to women’s inclusion in politics, insisting that women must move from the margins to the centre of leadership. Mr Abdullahi noted that Nigerian women carry a disproportionate share of the nation’s social and economic responsibilities but remain significantly underrepresented in key national institutions. He maintained that empowering women politically and economically remains essential to strengthening Nigeria’s democracy and ensuring inclusive governance for sustainable national development. “As Nigeria joins the rest of the world to mark International Women’s Day, the ADC celebrates all Nigerian women, whose labour and leadership sustain the nation. READ ALSO: International Women’s Day: Group calls for action to address inequalities affecting women, girls “From mothers raising communities to entrepreneurs powering markets and teachers educating children, Nigerian women carry a disproportionate share of the nation’s burdens. “Yet when critical decisions about Nigeria’s future are taken, women remain significantly underrepresented in positions of leadership across several national institutions,” the spokesman noted. According to him, the ADC is determined to change the narrative by ensuring women are fully integrated into the party’s leadership structure. “In the ADC, women are leaders. They are part of the structures that guide the party and shape its decisions,” Mr Abdullahi added. (NAN) Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Police confirm appointment of Anthony Placid as new spokesperson Next Post Nigeria’s renewed closeness with France did not start under Tinubu — French Ambassador Agency Report All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T15:13:39+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:27+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"602c2f968f82101545f244501b2a3acd2c303768","text_fingerprint":"advertisement bolaji abdullahi iwd adc reserves 40 party positions for women at all levels spokesperson mr abdullahi noted that nigerian women carry a disproportionate share of the nation s social and economic responsibilities but remain significantly underrepresented in key national institutions byagency report march 8 2026 reading time 2 mins read the african democratic congress adc says it has reserved 40 per cent of its positions for women across all structures to reaffirm its commitment to gender inclusion and leadership participation this was contained in a statement by the party s natio","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"a0a8556930551d17","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/862365-police-confirm-appointment-of-anthony-placid-as-new-spokesperson.html","title":"Police confirm appointment of Anthony Placid as new spokesperson","snippet":"PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported that Mr Placid, a deputy commissioner of police (DCP), was appointed to the role after Mr Hundeyin, an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), was asked to vacate the position.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Police confirm appointment of Anthony Placid as new spokesperson PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported that Mr Placid, a deputy commissioner of police (DCP), was appointed to the role after Mr Hundeyin, an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), was asked to vacate the position. byYakubu Mohammed March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The police have confirmed that Anthony Placid has been appointed as the new Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO). According to a statement by the outgoing spokesperson, Benjamin Hundeyin, the new FPRO was appointed by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Tunji Disu. PREMIUM TIMES earlier reported that Mr Placid, a deputy commissioner of police (DCP), was appointed to the role after Mr Hundeyin, an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), was asked to vacate the position. Mr Hundeyin was removed from office barely six months after he was appointed by the former IGP, Kayode Egbetokun. Mr Hundeyin was a CSP at the time of his appointment, but he was later promoted to ACP. This newspaper also reported that a new police unit, New Media Office, has also been established and Ali Giwa, a chief superintendent of police (CSP), has been appointed to head the unit. Mr Giwa will take charge of the Force’s social media activities and campaigns. About the new FPRO Mr Placid, according to the statement, is a seasoned officer with experience spanning administration, operations, intelligence, training and international peacekeeping. Born on 2 December 1970 in Uyo, Mr Placid hails from Mbiokporo Nsit in Nsit Ibom Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Geography and Regional Planning from the University of Uyo and a Master of Arts in Law and Diplomacy from the University of Jos. He also studied Law at the National Open University of Nigeria. Mr Placid joined the police as a cadet assistant superintendent of police (ASP) at the Nigeria Police Academy in 1996 and was commissioned in August 1998. He has attended several professional and international courses, including the United Nations Peace Operations Specialised Training (POST), with certifications in police studies, military studies, gender awareness, international humanitarian law, human rights and civilian protection. He also completed the UNITAR Senior Leadership and Peacebuilding course in Kenya. Over the years, Mr Placid has served in various operational and administrative roles within and outside Nigeria. He had served as the spokesperson for Adamawa police command and at the Police Staff College, Jos, Plateau State. He was also the Chief of Training for the African Union Mission in Sudan; and Head of Training and Development for the United Nations Mission in Darfur. Mr Placid has also served as Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in several divisions including Federal Housing Calabar, Bakassi, Uruan and Gembu; Officer-in-Charge of the Anti-Robbery Unit in Kaduna State; African Union Election Security Adviser; and Assistant Commissioner of Police (Operations) in Akwa Ibom and Kogi states. READ ALSO: Police arrest lab technician running illegal blood bank in hair salon He was also the assistant commissioner of police in charge of the Intelligence Department in Abia State and deputy in charge of Administration and Finance at Zone 3 Headquarters in Yola. Mr Placid is a member of the International Association of Chiefs of Police and a Commonwealth Human Rights Trainer as well as an International Committee of the Red Cross trainer on International Humanitarian Law. He is a graduate of the Senior Executive Course (SEC 47) of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, where he was inducted as a Member of the National Institute (mni) on 13 December 2025 before his redeployment to Cross River State. The new police spokesperson can be reached via his line — 07031179186. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Again, Dangote refinery raises petrol gantry price as Iran conflict rattles oil market Next Post IWD: ADC reserves 40% party positions for women at all levels – Spokesperson Yakubu Mohammed All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T15:04:52+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:28+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"f1948fdc2037ad9372034fe40ad38aef69fca0e9","text_fingerprint":"advertisement police confirm appointment of anthony placid as new spokesperson premium times earlier reported that mr placid a deputy commissioner of police dcp was appointed to the role after mr hundeyin an assistant commissioner of police acp was asked to vacate the position byyakubu mohammed march 8 2026 reading time 2 mins read the police have confirmed that anthony placid has been appointed as the new force public relations officer fpro according to a statement by the outgoing spokesperson benjamin hundeyin the new fpro was appointed by the inspector general of police igp tunji disu premi","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"a9a8ebc19526816b","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/business/business-news/862361-again-dangote-refinery-raises-petrol-gantry-price-as-iran-conflict-rattles-oil-market.html","title":"Again, Dangote refinery raises petrol gantry price as Iran conflict rattles oil market","snippet":"The Dangote Petroleum Refinery has increased its petrol gantry price by N121 to N995 per litre, citing rising crude costs and supply disruptions linked to the escalating United States–Israel conflict with Iran.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Tankers waiting to load fuel from Dangote Refinery. Again, Dangote refinery raises petrol gantry price as Iran conflict rattles oil market The Dangote Petroleum Refinery has increased its petrol gantry price by N121 to N995 per litre, citing rising crude costs and supply disruptions linked to the escalating United States–Israel conflict with Iran. byAbdulkareem Mojeed March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 3 mins read The Dangote Petroleum Refinery has increased its petrol gantry price by N121, raising the ex-depot rate from N874 to N995 per litre amid lingering volatility in global crude oil markets. A top official of the refinery confirmed the price adjustment to PREMIUM TIMES on Sunday afternoon, stating that the change reflects the cost of crude currently being imported by the company amid the continuous escalation of the United States–Israel war with Iran. “Coastal delivery is N948, while gantry is N995,” the official told this reporter in an interview, justifying the reason for the increase. Following the adjustment, major filling stations in Abuja quickly revised their pump prices. A survey of filling stations in the city on Sunday showed that most outlets were selling petrol at N1,100 per litre — a significant jump from the prices recorded on Friday and Saturday. PREMIUM TIMES observed that both Conoil and NNPC filling stations along Airport Road in Lugbe are selling petrol at N1,080 and N1,081 per litre, up from N960 per litre, as adjusted last Monday. Sharon filling stations also sold at N1,080 per litre on Sunday. “All these marketers are picking through coastal highways,” the Dangote refinery official said, arguing that the situation is still better because of the emergence of the refinery, adding that prices could have risen higher otherwise. Since the war broke out last Saturday, this is the second time within four days the refinery has adjusted its price as Brent crude oil prices continue to fluctuate amid disruptions affecting crude shipments through the Strait of Hormuz. Over the past 24 hours, Brent Crude has skyrocketed by at least 7.90 per cent to trade at $87.44 per barrel. Analysts have also forecast that the price is likely to climb further to $100 and above per barrel if the war escalates further in the coming days. The Strait is a critical global shipping route through which about half of the world’s crude oil and condensates are exported. However, shipments and trucking of petroleum products have been disrupted due to the ongoing conflict across Gulf countries. PREMIUM TIMES reported on Tuesday that the Dangote refinery increased its petrol gantry price by N100, raising the ex-depot rate from N774 to N874 per litre amid renewed volatility in global crude oil markets. The adjustment was also quietly implemented. The refinery later announced on Thursday that the conflict had forced the shutdown of some refineries and reduced output in several parts of the world, contributing to a global shortage of refined petroleum products. “The refinery implemented a measured adjustment of N100 per litre in its ex-depot price of Premium Motor Spirit, representing an increase of about 12%,” the company stated. Despite the increase, the refinery said it absorbed part of the rising costs to cushion the impact on the domestic market. “The refinery has absorbed 20% of the cost escalation, for now, to cushion the domestic market,” it said. No official statement has been issued regarding the latest price increase. However, on Thursday, the refinery explained that the cost of crude oil sourced for its operations had risen significantly, noting that Nigerian crude currently trades above the global Brent benchmark. “It is worth noting that Nigerian crude oil is more expensive than the Brent benchmark price by $3 to $6 per barrel,” the statement issued at the time noted. More Uncertainties As the conflict in the Middle East intensifies, Kuwait Petroleum Corporation began cutting oil output on Saturday and declared force majeure, adding to earlier oil and gas reductions from Iraq and Qatar as the U.S.-Iran war blocked shipments from the Middle East for the eighth consecutive day, Reuters reported. READ ALSO: Dangote Refinery explains N100 petrol price increase amid crude price surge The war has also disrupted the Strait of Hormuz, the world’s most critical oil transit route, responsible for about 20 per cent of global oil and LNG supply. Analysts have also predicted that the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia may soon cut output as oil storage capacity tightens. Amid these uncertainties, Nigerians may pay more for petrol in the coming days and weeks. This is largely because a significant share of petroleum products consumed in the country is still imported. By implication, the prices of major goods and services are likely to rise in response to the surge, adding to the existing hardship faced by many Nigerians amid ongoing economic reforms in the country. Although Nigeria stands to benefit from higher global oil prices through higher oil receipts as a major crude producer, most fuel marketers remain dependent on imported refined products. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Gateway Airport: Ogun targets international operations, to begin with Hajj Next Post Police confirm appointment of Anthony Placid as new spokesperson Abdulkareem Mojeed All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T14:19:14+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:30+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"24961d8141feceaebad621140d8799047b800c09","text_fingerprint":"advertisement tankers waiting to load fuel from dangote refinery again dangote refinery raises petrol gantry price as iran conflict rattles oil market the dangote petroleum refinery has increased its petrol gantry price by n121 to n995 per litre citing rising crude costs and supply disruptions linked to the escalating united states israel conflict with iran byabdulkareem mojeed march 8 2026 reading time 3 mins read the dangote petroleum refinery has increased its petrol gantry price by n121 raising the ex depot rate from n874 to n995 per litre amid lingering volatility in global crude oil mark","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"d2d630dc9962f39e","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/promoted/862357-gateway-airport-ogun-targets-international-operations-to-begin-with-hajj.html","title":"Gateway Airport: Ogun targets international operations, to begin with Hajj","snippet":"Gateway International Airport is expected to improve regional connectivity and complement existing aviation facilities in the South-West zone","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Dapo Olumide, Consultant on Aviation Matters and Accountable Manager of Gateway International Airport (centre), leading consultations with the relevant federal agencies at the airport Gateway Airport: Ogun targets international operations, to begin with Hajj Gateway International Airport is expected to improve regional connectivity and complement existing aviation facilities in the South-West zone byPress Release March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 2 mins read The Ogun State Government has intensified efforts to commence international passenger services at the Gateway International Airport, beginning with Hajj flights to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This, it said, is part of a broader plan to expand aviation infrastructure and boost economic activity in the state and the wider South-West region of Nigeria. The move comes as the state government edges closer to operationalising the airport, which has been developed as a strategic aviation hub to serve businesses and travellers within Ogun and neighbouring states. Governor Dapo Abiodun has initiated a series of high-level engagements with federal agencies whose statutory responsibilities are critical to the launch of international operations, including Hajj flights and cargo services from the airport. Officials said the discussions are focused on ensuring the airport meets all regulatory and operational requirements ahead of its planned international debut. Key areas under consideration include security architecture, deployment of specialised personnel, passenger processing systems and full regulatory compliance under the supervision of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority. To coordinate the process, the governor has mandated Captain Dapo Olumide, Consultant on Aviation Matters and Accountable Manager of Gateway International Airport, to lead consultations with the relevant federal agencies. Mr Olumide has already held meetings with leadership teams from the Nigeria Immigration Service, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency and the Nigeria Customs Service, whose delegation was led by Assistant Comptroller-General B Mohammed. Further consultations with other federal institutions are ongoing. The engagements are aimed at ensuring the timely deployment of the operational infrastructure and personnel required for international passenger processing and cargo operations at the airport. Gateway International Airport is expected to improve regional connectivity and support pilgrimage travel, particularly for Hajj operations. Officials also believe the facility will strengthen international trade by enhancing cargo movement and providing easier access for investors and businesses operating in Ogun State. When fully operational, the airport is projected to complement existing aviation facilities in the South-West, including the Murtala Muhammed International Airport in neighbouring Lagos, while positioning Ogun State as an emerging hub for aviation-linked commerce and logistics. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post International Women’s Day: Group calls for action to address inequalities affecting women, girls Next Post Again, Dangote refinery raises petrol gantry price as Iran conflict rattles oil market Press Release All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T14:14:01+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:34+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"9f8426e079a34b6dbc8de3e4dfaec5e41fb1772c","text_fingerprint":"advertisement dapo olumide consultant on aviation matters and accountable manager of gateway international airport centre leading consultations with the relevant federal agencies at the airport gateway airport ogun targets international operations to begin with hajj gateway international airport is expected to improve regional connectivity and complement existing aviation facilities in the south west zone bypress release march 8 2026 reading time 2 mins read the ogun state government has intensified efforts to commence international passenger services at the gateway international airport begin","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"7113e6098b96f727","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/health/health-news/862354-international-womens-day-group-calls-for-action-to-address-inequalities-affecting-women-girls.html","title":"International Women’s Day: Group calls for action to address inequalities affecting women, girls","snippet":"International Women’s Day is observed every year on 8 March to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women while also advocating for gender equality and women’s rights.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT A graphic of a women International Women’s Day: Group calls for action to address inequalities affecting women, girls International Women’s Day is observed every year on 8 March to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women while also advocating for gender equality and women’s rights. byFortune Eromonsele March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 3 mins read International Women’s Day (IWD) has again brought renewed calls to tackle inequalities affecting women and girls, with the AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF) Nigeria urging leaders and communities to translate commitments into concrete steps. In a statement sent to PREMIUM TIMES on Sunday to mark the global observance, AHF Nigeria said it is joining the worldwide movement advocating stronger efforts to dismantle barriers to health, equality and opportunity for women and girls. The organisation said it would commemorate the 2026 edition of the event on 9 March across the states where it operates in Nigeria, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Benue, Cross River, Kogi and Nasarawa. According to the group, the activities are aimed at highlighting the need for sustained support and opportunities for women and girls to thrive. Despite decades of progress, women and girls remain disproportionately affected by HIV, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, where they account for more than 60 per cent of new infections. Beyond HIV, the organisation noted that challenges such as gender-based violence, limited access to healthcare, restrictions on reproductive rights, income inequality and barriers to education continue to deepen disparities affecting women. It also pointed out that millions of women and girls still lack access to affordable menstrual health products and comprehensive sexual and reproductive health education, factors it said undermine dignity, mobility and opportunities. Medical training As part of this year’s activities, AHF Nigeria said it will organise Continuous Medical Education (CME) sessions for health workers in more than 156 healthcare facilities where the organisation provides services across its seven states of operation. The training will focus on the gendered dimensions of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and strategies to better support women, particularly those living in rural communities. The organisation said the initiative is expected to strengthen the capacity of health workers to help women navigate health challenges and improve their wellbeing and livelihoods. The Country Programme Director of AHF Nigeria, Echey Ijezie, said the organisation remains committed to programmes that prioritise women and girls. He emphasised that empowering women contributes to the development and well-being of entire communities. “AHF Nigeria places enormous value on women and girls in society. It is the reason our programmes are anchored around impacting women and young girls,” he said. Mr Ijezie said the organisation would continue to prioritise issues affecting women while urging leaders, policymakers and communities to match commitments with action. “We will continue to prioritise issues that affect women as we call on everyone, leaders, policymakers and communities, to turn their commitments into action to accelerate development for women and young girls,” he said. Advocacy for women’s wellbeing AHF said it continues to promote policies and programmes that protect and uplift women and girls globally. These efforts include the distribution of free menstrual products, advocacy against gender-based violence and expanding access to HIV services. The organisation said the initiatives are aimed at ensuring that every woman and girl can live a healthy and empowered life. As part of its message for the 2026 observance of IWD, AHF Nigeria urged governments and communities to move beyond promises and support initiatives that improve the lives of women and girls. The organisation said such collective action aligns with its “Give to Gain” message, which emphasises that when women and girls are given opportunities and support, entire communities benefit. International Women’s Day history, significance International Women’s Day is observed every year on 8 March to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women while also advocating for gender equality and women’s rights. The day is recognised globally and is marked by campaigns, events, conferences and advocacy activities that highlight the progress made toward women’s empowerment and the challenges that remain. This originated from labour and women’s rights movements in the early 20th century in North America and Europe. The first National Women’s Day was organised in the United States in 1909 by the Socialist Party of America. READ ALSO: IWD 2026: Women hold just 64% legal rights men enjoy – UN In 1910, German activist Clara Zetkin proposed an international day dedicated to women’s rights at the International Socialist Women’s Conference in Copenhagen. Delegates from 17 countries adopted the proposal. The first official IWD was celebrated in 1911 in countries such as Austria, Denmark, Germany and Switzerland, with more than one million people attending rallies to demand women’s rights, including the right to vote and better working conditions. The date 8 March became firmly established after women in Russia staged protests in 1917 demanding “bread and peace” during World War I. The strike eventually contributed to political change and women gaining the right to vote in Russia. The United Nations began celebrating IWD in 1975, the year it was declared International Women’s Year. Two years later, the UN General Assembly invited countries to officially observe the day as a global celebration of women’s rights and international peace. Today, the day is used worldwide to raise awareness about issues such as gender equality, access to education, economic opportunities, reproductive rights and the fight against violence against women. Despite progress, significant gender gaps remain globally. According to the United Nations, women still have only about 64 per cent of the legal rights that men enjoy worldwide, reflecting persistent inequalities in areas such as employment, safety, property rights and political participation. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post In Nigeria, a judge is not above or beyond investigation, By Chidi Anselm Odinkalu Next Post Gateway Airport: Ogun targets international operations, to begin with Hajj Fortune Eromonsele All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T13:10:27+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:35+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"62df3f3bc743ff917c86022fda79ae43fe3a2693","text_fingerprint":"advertisement a graphic of a women international women s day group calls for action to address inequalities affecting women girls international women s day is observed every year on 8 march to celebrate the social economic cultural and political achievements of women while also advocating for gender equality and women s rights byfortune eromonsele march 8 2026 reading time 3 mins read international women s day iwd has again brought renewed calls to tackle inequalities affecting women and girls with the aids healthcare foundation ahf nigeria urging leaders and communities to translate commitmen","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"cad784bb5aa8a7a9","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/opinion/862349-in-nigeria-a-judge-is-not-above-or-beyond-investigation-by-chidi-anselm-odinkalu.html","title":"In Nigeria, a judge is not above or beyond investigation, By Chidi Anselm Odinkalu","snippet":"“Judge not, that you be not judged. For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged….” – Matthew 7:1-2 (NKJV) In the first six months of 1986, Nigeria’s Supreme Court delivered two judgments with far reaching consequences for the lives and careers of two senior judges of the High Court. If the facts were […]","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT In Nigeria, a judge is not above or beyond investigation, By Chidi Anselm Odinkalu byPremium Times March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 5 mins read “Judge not, that you be not judged. For with what judgment you judge, you will be judged….” – Matthew 7:1-2 (NKJV) In the first six months of 1986, Nigeria’s Supreme Court delivered two judgments with far reaching consequences for the lives and careers of two senior judges of the High Court. If the facts were to recur today, forty years later, neither of these cases would come to trial. This fact says a lot about how the standards of judicial conduct and ethics as well as accountability for both have evolved – for worse – over the intervening period. Donald Ikomi was a judge and Chairman of the Armed Robbery and Firearms Tribunal of Bendel State when – together with his cook, Reuben Udoh, and one Martins Ekezoka – he was arraigned in December 1985 on a charge of murder. The case began on 5 July 1985, when Reuben Udoh discovered on the premises of 3 Obeahon Avenue in Benin GRA where Justice Ikomi lived, the remains of the Police Orderly to the judge, Uanlie Agbede. Parts of the body were missing. A post-mortem later revealed that the cause of death was “strangulation and excessive blood loss.” At the time of the murder, Justice Ikomi was presiding over the trial of Kingsley Eweka, a member of the infamous robbery gang of Lawrence Anini. The coincidence was not immediately apparent to an undiscerning public, caught in the unusual maelstrom of a judge under suspicion for a heinous crime. In November 1985, citing a need “to uphold the dignity of the judiciary”, Ibrahim Babangida’s military regime relieved Justice Ikomi of his judicial appointment. The following month, on 11 December 1985, the Attorney-General secured permission from the High Court for his trial to begin. In May 1986, the Supreme Court presided over by Anthony Aniagolu threw its not inconsiderable weight behind that decision. Following a ten-day trial, on 15 July 1985, the High Court of Bendel State discharged and acquitted Justice Ikomi (and his co-defendants). His daughter, Timeyin Baiyekusi, would later reveal that her dad was framed by George Iyamu, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, who “had already succumbed to pressure from (Lawrence) Anini to help ‘kill’ the case (against Kingsley Eweka) in the armed robbery and firearms tribunal headed by Justice Ikomi.” Earlier in January 1986, a full panel of the Supreme Court presided over by Chief Justice Ayo Irikefe, overturned the conviction of Paul Anyebe, a judge of the High Court of Benue State, on charges of illegal possession of firearms. Following his conviction by the lower court, the Advisory Judicial Committee (AJC), the predecessor to the National Judicial Council (NJC), had Justice Anyebe relieved of his judgeship. He was, however, reinstated after his acquittal, retiring thereafter as an honorable judge. These two cases showcased the immense challenges associated with accountability for allegations of serious malfeasance against judges. On the positive side, justice was served. Justice Ikomi, in particular, received full exoneration and his family and children retrieved their name with pride and honour. However, his life was ransacked. Born on 14 September 1935, Donald Ikomi died on 11 January 1992. It is difficult not to believe that the circumstances surrounding his trial for murder that he did not commit assuredly contributed to his untimely death at the age of 56. Both Justice Anyebe and Justice Ikomi had impeccable judicial reputations before their respective ordeals. Yet, rather remarkably, no one suggested then that their office, status, or reputations afforded them immunity against the charges. In the past week, echoes of aspects of the controversy around accountability of judges in Nigeria have returned as the Code of Conduct Bureau has reportedly begun an investigation into asset declaration compliance by the serving Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, John Tsoho. This followed a report that he had “violated Nigeria’s Code of Conduct law by failing to declare some of his bank accounts in his asset declaration form.” The undeclared assets reportedly included accounts in different banks denominated in both the Naira and in foreign currencies. Following upon this report, the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Afam Osigwe, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), reportedly wrote to the Chairman of the CCB to tell him that “the bureau lacked constitutional authority” to investigate John Tsoho. Backing up their president, three branches of the NBA in Benue State followed up in similar language to assertimmunity from investigation for John Tsoho, asserting that the CCB “lacks the constitutional authority to summon a sitting Chief Judge. It is settled law that only the National Judicial Council can investigate or discipline a serving judicial officer.” John Tsoho comes from Benue State. Sadly, however, the claim that the NBA makes under guise of judicial and constitutional authority does not exist in Nigerian law. For clarity, three lines of cases emerged in the 20-year period from 2002 to 2022 to define the scope of law applicable to the accountability of judges in Nigeria. First, in May 2002, the Supreme Court decided in a case initiated by Chief Gani Fawehinmi that although Governors as state chief executives were immune from legal process under the constitution, that did not preclude institutions of law enforcement from investigating them even while they were in office. In effect, assertions of immunity do not trump the power of investigation. Second, ten years later, in April 2012, the Supreme Court decided in a case arising from the attempt by the governor and House of Assembly of Kwara State to strong-arm former state Chief Judge, Raliat Elelu-Habeeb, out of office that a Chief Judge could not be removed from office except upon the advice of the NJC. Third, another ten years later, in May 2022, the same court decided in a case concerning Hyeladzira Nganjiwa, a judge of the Federal High Court, that a serving judge could not be prosecuted except upon a dispositive decision by the NJC. The decision in this case arose from the effort of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to prosecute the judge on charges of money laundering, corruption, and perverting the cause of justice. The decision was controversial because an investigation committee of the NJC headed by a former Justice of the Supreme Court, Emmanuel Ayoola, had indeed found the judge guilty of serious infractions of the judicial Code of Conduct in 2019. In raising concerns about the reports swirling around the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, the NBA recalled the playbook leading to the unlawful removal from office of Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, in 2019. The removal of Chief Justice Onnoghen did not pretend, however, to have anything to do with law or legal process. It should not be repeated as a model for judicial accountability nor cited as reason for claims that have no basis in law or common sense. Part 1(A) of Schedule III of Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution establishes the CCB and endows it with powers to, among other things, “receive complaints about non-compliance with or breach of the provisions of the Code of Conduct or any law in relation thereto, investigate the complaint and, where appropriate, refer such matters to the Code of Conduct Tribunal.” The NJC’s own judicial Code of Conduct requires judges to be “true and faithful to the Constitution and the Law”, while the constitution of the NBA requires it to promote the rule of law. The position of a High Court judge is high constitutional office. The law requires occupants of the office to make asset disclosures and the constitution confers on the CCB an explicit mandate to investigate and verify such disclosures. The idea of an impunity carve-out for judicial officers from this power of investigation of the CCB is contrary to the constitution, the judicial Code of Conduct; and the NBA Constitution. It is thus clearly unsustainable. If, however, the CCB’s investigation discloses serious infraction, the state of the law is that they should first file their findings by way of a complaint with the NJC for disciplinary action against any judge involved. That is the only way to balance the interests of the public, the judiciary, and individual judges in this complex landscape of shifting values in search of a judiciary worthy of the name. Chidi Anselm Odinkalu, a lawyer, teaches at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and can be reached through [email protected]. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Ndoma-Egba: Calm and dignified at 70, By Sam Akpe Next Post International Women’s Day: Group calls for action to address inequalities affecting women, girls Premium Times All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T11:23:50+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:37+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"5934fad3cf656947b1090249a4acd253391f8327","text_fingerprint":"advertisement in nigeria a judge is not above or beyond investigation by chidi anselm odinkalu bypremium times march 8 2026 reading time 5 mins read judge not that you be not judged for with what judgment you judge you will be judged matthew 7 1 2 nkjv in the first six months of 1986 nigeria s supreme court delivered two judgments with far reaching consequences for the lives and careers of two senior judges of the high court if the facts were to recur today forty years later neither of these cases would come to trial this fact says a lot about how the standards of judicial conduct and ethics a","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"d9dc7165de793bb4","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/opinion/862337-ndoma-egba-calm-and-dignified-at-70-by-sam-akpe.html","title":"Ndoma-Egba: Calm and dignified at 70, By Sam Akpe","snippet":"At 70, Victor has experienced stupefying fortunes and catastrophic moments. He has been favoured and deprived, all at the same time.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT Ndoma-Egba: Calm and dignified at 70, By Sam Akpe In politics, law, and social life, Victor is a non-advertised “front-page copy” whose silence could be annoying and whose calmness is a shield — a self-preservation strategy — irrespective of the expectations of his surroundings. bySam Akpe March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 7 mins read Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN). One of the humbling moments of my life in my journey of a privileged relationship with Victor is when he introduces me to people — especially when he was a senator. He would tell them: “Sam and I have come a long way. In fact, I have known him all my working life.“ I have told him repeatedly to translate that into cash and bridge the gap between us. That was in the mid-80s. I was a cub-reporter — an intern at the Nigerian Chronicle in Calabar. That day, I was assigned to cover proceedings at the Cross-River State High Court, where my boss and group news editor, Mr. Nnamnso Umoren, had two days back been committed to prison on the orders of the presiding judge. Nnamnso (which means: What Have I Done?) was blamed for publishing a story which the presiding judge, in his wisdom, considered contemptuous of the court. After two nights of confinement, he was brought to the court to face trial. As soon as the judge, in all his judicial majesty, took his seat, the case was called. Then I saw this sharp-looking gentleman, dressed in the legal attire, with his reading glasses sitting delicately at the roots of his nose. He stood up, took a bow, and introduced himself as Victor Ndoma-Egba, counsel for the defence. Seated by his side was his partner, my big friend, the late Richard Ebri. It was my first time in court — as a reporter and an observer. I had been warned by the assistant news editor, Unimke Nawa, who was also there, not to cough, so that I would not be a victim of another contempt of court. Victor’s argument in favour of Nnamnso was so persuasive that I questioned my decision not to study Law. He handled what looked like a complex issue with admirable ease. Before long, the judge, who had earlier sounded frightful, simply warned Nnamnso to go and sin no more. That was my first encounter with Victor — as he is known by friends and colleagues. At that time, he and Richard were still with the legendary Kanu Agabi (SAN), who later became attorney general of the federation and minister of justice. As soon as the court session was over, I moved towards Richard, who promptly introduced me to Victor. I was reverential before a man who had just rescued my boss from the claws of a dreadful judge. As insignificant as I was, and for inexplicable reasons, Victor took a special interest in me from that day onward. Decades later, I can confirm that Victor falls within the category of persons endowed with an exceptional character, described by William Michael as having “strong, positive personal magnetism.” Any person in this group could either be a braggart or a serene, decorous individual. Victor is certainly not someone who indulges in indecorous self-promotion. To borrow Michael’s words, he has deliberately grown his magnetic force such that without shouting, people are drawn to him for the good of his business and other interests. One of the humbling moments of my life in my journey of a privileged relationship with Victor is when he introduces me to people — especially when he was a senator. He would tell them: “Sam and I have come a long way. In fact, I have known him all my working life.“ I have told him repeatedly to translate that into cash and bridge the gap between us. I call him Chief — a genuine appellation arising from over half a dozen traditional honours bestowed on him by his people. In turn, he calls me High Chief Sam — and I have no idea where he got that from. I used to tease him that it is a princely way of mocking my empty arsenal of traditional titles. Victor’s sense of humour is inherent. Except you are close to him, you could take a harmless joke as a bloody stab. Years back, I felt obliged to take my fiancée to Calabar, shortly before our wedding, to introduce her to Victor. He took one unsmiling look at her and asked, as though he was interrogating a client before a court appearance: “Young woman, why are you taking this kind of risk? You don’t know this man oh!” Momentarily, my wife-to-be looked confused. She turned in my direction and met my muffled laughter. Then she looked back at Victor. This time, the seriousness had evaporated. He was laughing, too. Then he said: “This man travels a lot. When I need him, he is hardly available. Please hold him tight. He’s a good boy.“ Fast forward to that day in 2004. I had left the National Assembly about two hours earlier for The PUNCH newsroom in Abuja. My phone rang. Victor was on the line. I picked and asked: “Chief, anything for the boys?” His response was typical but hair-raising: “High Chief Sam Akpe, is that how you talk to a Senior Advocate of Nigeria?” My response: “Chief, I thought that was an abandoned aspiration, after several trials.” We both laughed. Then he said: “Well, you are behind the news. Tune to NTA.” Still on the call, I turned towards the television, which was already on. The scrolling news confirmed it. I saw his name as one of the new Senior Advocates of Nigeria. Wow! I knew that before his inauguration as a senator in 2003, he had filed what he considered as his last application to be made a SAN, and had met all the requirements. That afternoon, he received a call from one of his law school classmates, who congratulated him after addressing him as Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, Senior Advocate of Nigeria. With that, Victor became the first Nigerian to become a SAN, while serving as a senator. However, if becoming a SAN at that level sounds like an exclusive advantage, there is no doubt that Victor’s life, in the past 70 years, has been embellished with a lot of the unprecedented. Born in Ikom on 8 March, 1956, Victor’s bread was buttered from birth. His father, Emmanuel Takon Ndoma-Egba, a respected lawyer and community leader, joined the public service and grew within the system to become a Justice of the Court of Appeal — a position he held until his retirement in 1992. Victor’s mother, Madam Regina Nentui, was politically-minded. She was elected a councillor for Ikom Urban while heavily pregnant with Victor in 1956. A few years later, she was elected council chairman for Ikom Local Government (1960-1963). So, as his mother’s beloved, Victor took a shot at politics, and as his father’s son, he studied Law at the University of Lagos and was called to the Bar at the age of 22 — in 1978. In 1993, he obtained his LLM at the University of Calabar, and later attended specialty courses at the Irish Development Institute, before the Stanford and Harvard Universities. Despite being influenced by his parents in his choice of a career, Victor originally sculptured his life for priesthood in the Catholic Church. His admission to Mary Knoll Secondary School — a breeding ground for future Catholic Priests — had already been accomplished. He admired the priesthood, and was in pursuit of it till the Nigerian Civil War placed a barrier on his path. When the war started, his parents considered it too risky to send him alone to Ogoja, where the school was located. Fortunately, Government Secondary School, whose admission his mother helped engineer as a council chairman, was closer home. So, it took a deadly civil war that claimed more than a million lives, to end Victor’s priesthood ambition. At 27, he was appointed into the Cross River State Executive Council as commissioner for Works and Transport, in 1984. He also doubled as acting commissioner for Justice. There is no doubt that his father’s influence played back-stage roles in some of Victor’s public service appointments. From the law chamber of Chief Kanu Agabi (SAN), which he joined in 1979, Victor, in 1987, went solo with Victor Ndoma-Egba & Co, which later changed to Ndoma-Egba, Ebri, & Co, when his friend, Richard, left Chief Agabi to join him. In those days in Calabar, theirs was predictably a law chamber of the future. It paraded a bunch of young intellectually glittering lawyers. Victor was on the upward swing. Always looking calm — even if pretentiously so — he became the poster boy of youthful success. A lawn tennis addict, even at 70, he has refused to slow down. Next to tennis is his love for writing, reading, and travelling. At the last count, Victor has been to 54 countries. One day in 2003, he called: “High Chief Sam, will you welcome me if I come to that your Senate?“ How did Senate become my property! At that time, I was The PUNCH‘s Chief Correspondent in the Senate. I asked back: “Are you in the race?“ His answer: “I have been conscripted into the race by my governor.“ The story of his election to the Senate started as a joke, except that his state governor, Donald Duke, was the cheerleader. Victor was attending the International Bar Association Conference in Durban, South Africa, when Duke called from Calabar. They spoke. No mention was made of an election to the Senate. But when Victor returned, a table was already set for the political dinner. He did not bankroll his first election to the Senate. The party took charge of the entire process. They guided him in filling the required forms, providing the needed information, taking pictures for the campaign posters, while asking him to make himself available at the campaign grounds for the purposes of introduction to the electorate. But he saw pepper during his re-election bids. His three terms in the Senate were quite eventful. With 38 bills in his kitty, he served as the first chairman of the Media and Publicity Committee, Deputy Senate Leader, and Senate Majority Leader. With obvious political naivety, he often told me that his desire was to be condemned to the Senate by his people. He had no other ambition. But that has not happened. There are two telephone calls I have made to Victor that ended in tears. The first was when Richard died in January 1999, shortly after he and his wife attended my wedding. When I called, Victor’s secretary answered. There was no mobile telephone system in Nigeria at that time. Then Victor came on the line and declared: “Sam, it’s true. Your friend has left us.” Again, tragedy struck like thunder in 2020, when Victor lost his adoring wife, Amaka, in a car accident. The news came as a social media rumour. I called him. He answered at the first ring: “Sam, it’s true.” We were all devastated. It is still a mystery how he emerged from that misfortune. Or has he? Victor has served as board chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), and pro-chancellor and chairman of council of two federal universities in Kogi and Ekiti states. As a serving senator, he led several delegations to international events, not just for the Senate, but for the government of Nigeria. In the last 70 years, Victor has been activity-personified. His life has known no dull moment. At 70, he is still agile. His law chamber still parades young law graduates whom he is turning into sharp legal weapons. In the last few years, he has visited the Vatican repeatedly. I keep wondering whether he is trying to renew his tutelage for priesthood. It is becoming obvious that in his subconscious, he is already a priest — without a parish. In 2022, Pope Francis had personally knighted him. Victor keeps his friends. He loves his people. His philanthropic activities do not create headlines. They only touch hearts. From an appreciative nation, he has been honoured with Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON) and Officer of Order of the Federal Republic (OFR). At 70, Victor has experienced stupefying fortunes and catastrophic moments. He has been favoured and deprived, all at the same time. His life has been an admixture of tears of joy and that of mourning. He has encountered the green pastures and the valleys of the shadow of death. In politics, law, and social life, Victor is a non-advertised “front-page copy” whose silence could be annoying and whose calmness is a shield — a self-preservation strategy — irrespective of the expectations of his surroundings. His words are measured. His intentions are thoughtful. He is not eager to please you at his discomfort — even if that means breaking a promise. His physique is trimmed to size. Victor does not grow beards. At 70, he is not planning to. I have been favoured with his friendship. Happy birthday, Sir. Sam Akpe is a journalist and a biographer. Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post INTERVIEW: France’s presence in Africa has never been so big, despite AES – French Ambassador Next Post In Nigeria, a judge is not above or beyond investigation, By Chidi Anselm Odinkalu Sam Akpe All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T11:15:52+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:38+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"9e27b06625b6b48b81ba3afb4c6f198252888c11","text_fingerprint":"advertisement ndoma egba calm and dignified at 70 by sam akpe in politics law and social life victor is a non advertised front page copy whose silence could be annoying and whose calmness is a shield a self preservation strategy irrespective of the expectations of his surroundings bysam akpe march 8 2026 reading time 7 mins read victor ndoma egba san one of the humbling moments of my life in my journey of a privileged relationship with victor is when he introduces me to people especially when he was a senator he would tell them sam and i have come a long way in fact i have known him all my wor","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"60bd1f0ce7eaa17c","source_name":"Premium Times","source_domain":"premiumtimesng.com","source_list_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/features-and-interviews/862317-interview-frances-presence-in-africa-has-never-been-so-big-despite-aes-french-ambassador.html","title":"INTERVIEW: France's presence in Africa has never been so big, despite AES - French Ambassador","snippet":"France's Ambassador to Nigeria also spoke about other issues such as US President Donald Trump's Board of Peace and Mr Trump's Greenland controversy.","content_text":"ADVERTISEMENT The France Ambassador to Nigeria, Marc Fonbaustier INTERVIEW: France’s presence in Africa has never been so big, despite AES – French Ambassador France's Ambassador to Nigeria also spoke about other issues such as US President Donald Trump's Board of Peace and Mr Trump's Greenland controversy. byBeloved JohnandPopoola Ademola March 8, 2026 Reading Time: 15 mins read In this interview with PREMIUM TIMES, the French Ambassador to Nigeria, Marc Fonbaustier, discussed France’s relations with Nigeria, Francophone African countries, the evolving dynamics of transatlantic ties, tensions surrounding the US Board of Peace, and France’s vision of strategic autonomy in a changing global order. The interview was conducted before the start of the US-Israeli war on Iran, and so no questions were asked about the war. Excerpts, PT: On the Board of Peace, why did France decline the US invitation despite voting for the board’s creation on the Security Council? Mr Fonbaustier: We voted Resolution 2803 in the specific context of the situation in Gaza. France has indeed been invited by the United States to join the Board of Peace, but we have not followed up yet. The scope of the Board of Peace, as well as its legal and policy framework, still needs to be clarified. France maintains its commitment to the United Nations as the cornerstone of effective and rule-based multilateralism, based on international law, equality between sovereign States and peaceful settlement of disputes. At the moment, the Board of Peace seems “far, very far from the Charter of the United Nations” – as recently stated by the French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Mr Jean-Noël Barrot. The Board of Peace is an unprecedented initiative, and as such, it must be analysed in a rational, legal, and political manner before participation can be considered. In any case, sovereign States should not be forced or pressured to join such an initiative. PT: Do you think the US push for Greenland undermined EU strategic autonomy? Mr Fonbaustier: The recent US stance on Greenland is indeed a test for European credibility: the French President recently spoke about the need for a “strategic wake-up call for all of Europe” alongside Greenland’s Prime Minister Jens-Frederik Nielsen and Denmark’s Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen. It confirms the relevance of the concept of strategic autonomy that France has been using since the mid-1990s and that we have been implementing in practice for even longer, in the wake of Général de Gaulle’s focus on national independence. PT: Have the US’s recent actions shaped or constrained France’s foreign policy decision-making? Mr Fonbaustier: There has been an old and strong friendship between our two countries and people since the American War of Independence, during which France provided key support to the new United States, consolidated by the help we received from the United States during the two World Wars. Today, we are allies, which does not mean we are always aligned. It is our right and our responsibility to say no when we disagree – like we did when we refused to take part in the 2003 Iraq War. The US’s recent actions have not constrained France’s foreign policy decision-making; on the contrary, as they have proved a point we have been making for decades, arguing that Europe should be responsible for its own security and cannot depend excessively on an external partner. The publication of the latest US National Security Strategy was a moment of clarification in this regard and confirmed for the EU the clear need to move towards more strategic autonomy. PT: What new strategies has the EU been considering to end the Russia-Ukraine war? Mr Fonbaustier: At the latest meeting of the Coalition of the Willing in early January, France expressed its resolute commitment to a sustainable peace process for Ukraine again, again, leading to a just, lasting and solid peace. We expect Russia to engage in good faith and seriously in negotiations, as it has unfortunately violated the peace agreements that it has signed over the past fifteen years. In that regard, we have highlighted five priorities in order to put an end to Russia’s war of aggression: First, establishment of a mechanism to monitor the ceasefire, under US leadership and with contributions of other States; Second, support to Ukrainian armed forces, which are and will remain the first line of defence and deterrence; Third, continued deployment of a multinational force for Ukraine, intended to be a reassurance force after the ceasefire; Fourth, legal translation of these commitments in order to support Ukraine in the event of further aggression by Russia after a ceasefire; Fifth, economic and reconstruction support for Ukraine, as well as long-term defense cooperation with Ukraine. PT: France’s once-dominant influence in Francophone Africa has been fading, particularly since it lost its former colonies. How is France dealing with this? Are there plans to rebuild the relationship? Mr Fonbaustier: Your question, in a nutshell, is how we see our partnership with Africa and African countries currently. Never forget that there are 54 countries in Africa with which we have long-standing relationships. We deal with sovereign countries, which means that what has happened in francophone countries, particularly the Sahel, does not summarise our relationship with other countries on the continent. But when we say we deal with sovereign countries, we mean this with the understanding that things can change at any time. There are countries who asked France to intervene to support them against terrorism. For instance Mali, we intervened at the request of a sovereign state, and it is reversible. When the sovereign state asks us to withdraw, we do it. It is as simple as that. I think the focus should be excessively on Sahel states and the military presence. It extremely reduces the full picture. Also, France did the same with the United States in 1966, when President de Gaulle wrote to the US President to say you have to withdraw your troops from France. So we know what sovereignty and national integrity can mean. Nigeria knows it as well. Now, if I look at the broader picture, honestly, we have a very balanced relationship with all types of countries, Francophone, English-speaking countries, and Lusophone countries. We think, contrary to some biased approaches, the trend is upward. Clearly, the French presence has never been so big. We are the second-largest investor in Africa after the UK, and we are the first country in the world to host African students from outside Africa. So I think somebody who says there is a French retraction or diminished presence in Africa is making a very wrong assessment. PT: Your response has a broader perspective on France’s relations with African countries. However, could you speak to any ongoing efforts to repair strained relations between France and its former West African colonies? Mr Fonbaustier: Two things. First, what is sad and wrong, I think, is to make France a scapegoat. It is too easy when you have poor governance, as we have now in some countries, ex-Francophone colonies, to put the burden on France and say we are the scapegoats. That, I think, does not work well, first, and is not fair. Now, as to what is the new approach is, I think everything has been said by President Macron in 2017 in Ouagadougou. He delivered a very important speech that served as the foundation for the new policy. What is the new policy? It is a partnership. Partnership between equals, on equal footing, and co-built, which means France is not imposing solutions from abroad. We are co-building with responsible governments, nations, and populations so we can address common challenges, because we have linked destinies. We have common interests, common challenges, and linked destinies. Equal footing, true partnership, fair, with no hidden agenda. That’s exactly what we are doing now in all countries, particularly, to be honest, with Nigeria. Nigeria, for us, is the typical, perfect partner for the French policy as it stands in Africa. There is no hidden agenda. We are two trying to be one. We listen to each other and try to adapt and solve challenges together. PT: How does France view Niger’s claim that it, along with Benin and the Ivory Coast, backed an attack at Niamey’s airport? Mr Fonbaustier: These allegations, as so many others, are groundless. France has been West Africa’s most committed partner in the fight against terrorism over the past fifteen years. 58 of our soldiers were killed during anti-terrorist operations carried out at the request of West African States. More than 250 of our citizens have been killed by jihadi groups since 2012. Europe and West Africa have a common interest and a shared destiny: a stable and prosperous world in which terrorist groups do not have any safe haven. PT: France appears to be strengthening its ties with Nigeria. President Bola Tinubu has made several trips to France in the past two years, and in 2023, the French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, Catherine Colonna, visited Nigeria. Is this growing relationship a result of France losing influence in its traditional Francophone partner countries? Mr Fonbaustier: No, I think if you look at history and facts, you’ll find that this was not the case. We have started the shift towards English-speaking countries long before. It was in the 90s. I think when President Mitterrand and, later, President Chirac were in charge, we thought we were not sufficiently present in former British or Dutch colonies and that we needed to be more present. So, the shift started far earlier, number one. With Nigeria, we established quite a good relationship after the dictatorship, when we returned to civilian rule in 2000. The first state visit of President Obasanjo was to France in 2000. So, you see, it’s decades before the so-called degradation of our ties with AES countries. Number three, we have fostered the pace, and it’s been fostered like this during the term of President Hollande, who came to visit you, and President Buhari made a reciprocal state visit to France. Now, there was the state visit of President Tinubu. What I want to illustrate is that it has a long history. It did not start at all with anything linked to Francophone countries. It’s part, as I said to you, of a broader ambition to be present in all of Africa. We have a look at the broad continent, not one reduced to the ex-Francophone colonies. That would be far more reductive than what we have in mind, you see. And Nigeria is typically a pivotal state for that purpose. We are so big, so important, so influential in West Africa and even across the broader continent that it was very important for us to be present and partners from the beginning. PT: Francophone nations in Africa want more control over the management of their currency. However, France still upholds the decades-old system in which foreign exchange reserves are held at the French Treasury. Why so, and are there plans to suspend this practice? Mr Fonbaustier: It’s always based on the maturity of the relationship between France and these countries, and the degree of reform they want to achieve. It seems that in West Africa, things have gone better and faster. You see? But what happens, and I want to rebound on your question because it’s a very good one. I never accepted criticisms about a so-called colonial military policy. From 2018 to 2019, reforms have been achieved in the West African region. France is not a member of the bodies that now rule the monetary union in West Africa. We are no longer members of the Central Bank of West African states. And this obligation, as you said rightly, of depositing reserves in the French treasury has been lifted. So we are absolutely confronted again with sovereignty matters, and currency is key to sovereignty. For instance, Mali left the Monetary Union of West Africa in 1962. Then they came back in 1984. Mauritania decided to leave in 1973. But Guinea-Bissau decided to join in 1997. So it’s just to illustrate to you the fact that we are again confronted with a sovereignty policy. If the degree of maturity for structural reforms has not been reached in Central Africa, it is not France’s onus. It is because I think these countries have not been in a position to align their views or to promote anything new. But I would not comment too much on Central Africa, because it is not my area of competence, you will understand. It is easy to say that, but it’s the truth. I am concentrating more on West Africa, and I just wanted to kill these fake news or false ideas about France still controlling or dominating poor countries that are servants of the French treasury. This is over, and I hope I have been convincing, because there is no more organic link between the French treasury, the French central bank, and the members. Now the question of CFA’s future is still on the table. You have pros and cons. Some will criticise. Very, very wise economists from Africa say it’s not good to have this type of currency. Others, on the contrary, say it’s very favourable to trade, to stability, etc. I’ll take note of one fact: the three AES members who are so bullish on colonialism have not left the CFA. Why is that? CFA provides a remarkable currency exchange rate stability, and this is extremely important when you want to attract investors, when you want to keep a global balance on your macroeconomic trends, on your budget, and on your fiscal resources. It’s very important. When a currency is sloping or going upward, it’s not easy. CFA is a stable currency. So I’m not pledging for CFA in particular, but I just mean that it has a certain value to have an exchange rate that is guaranteed. In Central Africa, I repeat, I am not so competent. I just think there is a degree of maturity of a debate that has been faster in West Africa, and I’m happy with it because West Africa is a region I like, and I favour very much in my career. PT: French was once widely taught in Nigerian schools, and the French language and culture had a strong presence in the country. However, in recent years, many schools have lost French teachers, and the language has declined. Are there any existing partnerships aimed at revitalising the teaching of French in Nigerian schools? Mr Fonbaustier: I take your point. It’s very valid. There is one thing to correct, however. French in Nigeria is not only a matter for France, but it is also a matter for Nigeria, because geography is a serious factor. You are surrounded by French-speaking countries. If you want to exchange more with these countries, to be more brothers and sisters, you need a lingua franca. It can be English or French. So expanding French teaching in Nigeria is an issue, a stake, for Nigeria first of all, and for the neighbours. Now, we are absolutely sensitive to the issue you are raising. I remind you that we have had capacity-building projects between 2023 and 2025 in five states. There was FCT Lagos, Oyo, Plateau, and Enugu. In these states, we have developed a capability-building project, and I think 130 teachers in French have been taught and reinforced, and 50 pilot schools have been set up. So it’s nothing. Of course, it just finished now, so we have to take stock of the results. I hope it’s been something that has shaped a bit, you see, a more robust French-speaking community. That’s what we have in mind. Number two, there is this Nigerian-French language village in Badagry. Not given up, it’s still valid, it’s still active. I sometimes meet people who have been through this village, and they speak French to me. It’s very funny, and it’s nice. Number three, I also have a new project ahead. It will be a two-year project called Bilingual and Competitive, and it will be focused on employability. French is not only a language for culture, but it is also a vehicle to get a profession, a good training, and a good technical expertise. We mix up employability, professionalism, and the French language. And so it will be very much focused on this, and the programme will be to set up French resources and employability centres in 15 universities. So you see, we will touch universities, and in these universities, there will be a kind of platform which will focus on French and employability. So that’s number three. Number four, as you know, we have a network in the country which is, I think, undisputed, with 10 Alliances Francaises and the Institut Français du Nigeria here in Abuja. It means 11 centres where people can learn French and study French. And number five, we have a project with the Ministry of Defence to set up a Centre d’enseignement du français, a kind of laboratory of French language for the armies. This is on track. It’s going to be built over the upcoming months. I don’t focus on the military at all. It is just that there is also a need for your military to speak better French than they used to. It will help when they take part in UN peacekeeping missions, et cetera. This goes to show that we have an array, a spectrum of programmes, projects, structures, which can work to sustain French as a valid language for the population of Nigeria. So we don’t give up at all. We think, on the contrary, that we have to foster the trend and to, I would say, encourage as many Nigerians as possible to learn French. But you’re right, it’s a challenge. Your population is growing big, fast. You have a natural inclination for English, and I respect that very much. But it’s very important that in this process, we don’t lose French. It must remain in the scope. PT: Many Nigerians are interested in pursuing a degree in France, yet French institutions seem to attract relatively little attention. Are there any plans to increase the appeal of French schools to Nigerian students? Mr Fonbaustier: It’s impressive how much the number of Nigerian students in France has completely skyrocketed in the last 10 years. Plus 200 per cent. We are at around 1,378 students from Nigeria studying in France just within 2024-2025. Amongst them, 43 per cent are women, and I’m very keen on that. Also, it is true that the hurdle to a massive movement of Nigerians to France is the language. But to this, we have a response. It’s already operative. There are 1,600 programmes at master’s level in France that are taught in English. So you see, we are not chauvinistic in terms of language, nor are we attached to the French language by pride. We have understood the need to be pragmatists if we want to attract English-speaking students of good quality. We need to catch them with an offer that corresponds to their skills. I repeat, we have 1,600 programmes and courses in English. It’s a lot, and it’s not well-known. If it’s not well-known, it’s probably because we have not been pushing this offer to the potential students enough. So this is a major effort of Campus France for the upcoming years to expand the knowledge of the people here that there is a possibility to study in France in the English language, particularly in science, business administration, engineering, and medicine. You see, these are really core sciences or core lessons or training that we would like to push forward because we think there would be a massive interest in Nigeria for it. PT: France used to have reputable businesses operating in Nigeria, such as Peugeot and Renault in the automobile industry. However, their presence has significantly declined in recent years. What caused this change, and are there any ongoing efforts to encourage French businesses to return or invest in Nigeria again? Mr Fonbaustier: Well, I cannot answer your question easily. I just noticed that some other types of cars have invaded the market in Nigeria. Let’s just come back to your first question. What can we do to make things better and come back to the old days, where 70 per cent of the cars were Peugeots? I don’t think we have to come back to military power. There is no need. We have two kinds of partnerships in the automobile sector. One, and very promising, is with the Dangote industries in Kaduna and Kano States. We have a partnership with Dangote, and there is a plant in Kaduna, which can produce, I think, 120 cars per day. They have decided to start with a model called the 301. But now they are considering producing some pickup, some 308, and 3008, some 5008, and 508. So many models could be produced in that plant, which is in Kaduna. I just know that the target, which has been fixed by Dangote himself in February, just recently, is 44,000 vehicles as a target for sale in your country. This is reasonably good, 44,000 cars is a huge figure, and a very ambitious target. So that’s for Dangote and Peugeot, Stellantis. You know, now Peugeot is no longer. It’s still named Peugeot, but the brand is called Stellantis. We also have a second partnership, which I think is of interest. It’s between Renault and Coscaris, which is, you know, Coscaris is a Nigerian company. We also have in mind to co-produce some vehicles together. I think it’s the Logan, but the Logan has a special name in Nigeria. In the Indonesian market, I think it’s known as Thailand. And there would also be, I think, the retail of the Orock model and the Kwik models, which are imported from Brazil. So the Coscaris assembly plant with Renault would be located in Lagos State. So you see, we have new ambitions, but you know, for the automobile industry, it’s a long cycle. It took a long while to make the French vanish in the automobile scene. It will take a bit of time to see the resurrection and the arrival, I hope so, of the French automobile industry in Nigeria. But we have two good partners, partners with Dangote vehicles and with Coscaris. But this is not the end of the story. I think French business in Nigeria is broader than that. As you know, we still have about 100 companies operating in Nigeria. They directly employ 16,000 Nigerians. I think the amount of French investments before the shrinkage of the Naira was estimated to be 10 billion. Now it shrinks to 5 billion, but it’s very much due to a currency assessment. If the currency lowers, then the amount of the investment stock also lowers. But we have good news on certain fronts. There was a project launched by Cerba Landsat, which is now. It is a new laboratory that opened in Lagos in 2024. We have about 10 Cerba Landsat laboratories in Nigeria, so it’s good. Total Energy has obtained two new offshore exploration licences and is a core shareholder in LGNG Strain 7. It’s a gas expansion project in Bonny Island. Also, I think Partek, which is the most important fund devoted to Africa, and particularly to African startups, was launched in 2024. It reaches 280 million euros. It’s quite a significant fund, and it is open to Nigerian companies and startups. We also have a success story with Coolbox. I don’t know if you’ve heard of them. They are involved in solar refrigeration solutions, and they have established their headquarters in France. It’s a Nigerian company which has a headquarters in France, but operates in Nigeria. We also have the Fanmilk project, you see, with Dano. There is a value chain that works very well for dairy products. We also have some upcoming good news, but I cannot disclose the secrets of the business. They have not closed deals with two major brands that are very well known in Nigeria. So the trend is not so bad. What is the main force at stake? Of course, risk-taking is not easy. I’m not, I would say, so satisfied with sometimes the freelocity of some investors for Nigeria because they are a bit concerned sometimes by the security matters. Despite this, there are many prospects, many things going ahead. So, yes, in general, the business relationship is good. And you have, I must say, some very good skills and strengths in your country. And we have this chance of having a business council, the France-Nigeria business council, with many important investors from Nigeria present. They can facilitate and make business easier for new French companies coming to your country, and reciprocally, Nigerians investing in France. Don’t forget that four banks of Nigeria have opened a subsidiary or a formal presence in France. The four majors. So that’s good. It just shows you that, yes, bridging France and Nigeria is easier now. The UK has left the EU. So Brexit has also been, I think, a blow to the UK as a gatekeeper. So many operators now arbitrate and think that France or Germany can be the entry gates to the EU. PT: How keen is France to diversify trade relations with Nigeria? Mr Fonbaustier: We are extremely keen to diversify, as are your authorities. We try to find some other driving forces for the economy beyond petroleum and gas and direct products. It comes as no surprise that agri-food is a major cornerstone for the future. What we call tech in general, and particularly cultural and creative industries, provides a huge amount of employment and added value to make out of it. PT: When it comes to attracting investment, the Nigerian government has been particularly keen in this regard, introducing policies such as the unification of the naira. From your point of view, are these policies beginning to attract, or likely to attract, increased investment from French private industry? Mr Fonbaustier: Investors always look at risk assessments and cost-benefit ratios. So they are very keen to see inflation, currency, and interest rates. These are three major elements of an economic calculation. On these three points, I think things are on demand, and clearly, there is good news on the macroeconomic front. So yes, it’s part of global attractiveness. PT: When you hear afrobeat, which musicians first come to mind? Mr Fonbaustier: Afrobeat, of course. It is impossible to escape it. There was this Fela Kuti exhibition in Lagos that we have just opened. I’m so proud that France can celebrate such an iconic figure of music worldwide, not only in Nigeria. So I just listened again to a song I like. It’s Unknown Soldiers. I think it’s a very good one. I’ve heard one song by Tony Allen. Tony Allen is really great. Ejo, I don’t know if you know it. Very good. So Afrobeat, yes, I like it. Singing, I cannot sing. I’m a very bad singer. The only song I could sing today, and it would be very nationalistic, would be La Marseillaise, but it would not be good. It’s a national anthem. PT: Which Nigerian food is your favourite? Mr Fonbaustier: I have tried the famous pepper soup. It is very spicy. Honestly, it was a bit harsh on my stomach. I will do it again, but I will do it again if it’s a bit milder. It’s really delicious. It’s very, very nutritious, but also very tasty. So I like it. I also like the sweets, Alkaki and Dublan, which you see from Hausa Sweets. Have you heard of them? It’s pastries. Alkaki and Dublan, it’s called. It reminds me of Moroccan pastries from Northern Africa. It’s very sweet. You see, I try to keep the balance between the South and the North. PT: Any favourite attire? Mr Fonbaustier: Also, it’s the hats. Nigerian men wear hats, and I would need a kind of description of what the hat means exactly in terms of geographical origin and social position. Because the hat speaks. PT: How would you describe your time in Nigeria so far? Mr Fonbaustier: As far as my experience of Nigeria is concerned, I am very passionate about art and patrimony. Your country is extraordinary. My only frustration is that it’s not easy to visit all the places. I have a book written by a Dutch person. He visited 511 tribes of your country, and each tribe has its own artefacts and traditions. So you see the richness, the extraordinary richness of your heritage. I visited the Kaduna Museum. I love the pieces of art that I saw. Some of them, for me, are really one of the best things you can see in Africa. READ ALSO: EXCLUSIVE: FG panel praises UNN VC, predecessor for exposing ex-Minister Uche Nnaji’s certificate forgery And it can really match the best things I’ve seen in my life. So I have been very impressed. But in a nutshell, if I summarise my experience after one year, I would say it is demanding and rewarding. Demanding because your country is complex. It is very rich. It’s very massive. For a newcomer, it takes time to get used to certain traditions and rules. And number two, it’s rewarding because there is one thing which strikes me, and I’m very sensitive to it as a diplomat and by personality. It’s the warmth of the people. I have been welcomed by all the people in your country. People are so nice, warm, and charming. This is part of your tradition of hospitality. You don’t see the foreigner as a threat but as an opportunity to meet and do something together, and I love that about your country. I think this is what is at the core, the deep soul of Nigeria Share this: Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) WhatsApp Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window) Telegram Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Previous Post Night of Terror: How armed men attacked Abuja community, kidnapped residents Next Post Ndoma-Egba: Calm and dignified at 70, By Sam Akpe Beloved John Popoola Ademola All content is Copyrighted © 2025 The Premium Times, Nigeria","published_at":"2026-03-08T11:00:53+00:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:41+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"2e07cafe41816f948f724b56a96259e23bee17eb","text_fingerprint":"advertisement the france ambassador to nigeria marc fonbaustier interview france s presence in africa has never been so big despite aes french ambassador france s ambassador to nigeria also spoke about other issues such as us president donald trump s board of peace and mr trump s greenland controversy bybeloved johnandpopoola ademola march 8 2026 reading time 15 mins read in this interview with premium times the french ambassador to nigeria marc fonbaustier discussed france s relations with nigeria francophone african countries the evolving dynamics of transatlantic ties tensions surrounding t","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"2500ccf20cfdac4e","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/hardship-how-fct-women-converted-their-private-cars-for-commercial-use/","title":"Hardship: How FCT Women Converted Their Private Cars For Commercial Use - Daily Trust","snippet":"Many women in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have converted their private cars into informal taxis, popularly known as “kabu-kabu”, in order to make ends","content_text":"--> Top Story Hardship: How FCT women converted their private cars for commercial use Taxi operators obstruct traffic flow in Jabi Abuja yesterday. By Daily Trust Sun, 8 Mar 2026 16:09:44 WAT Many women in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have converted their private cars into informal taxis, popularly known as “kabu-kabu”, in order to make ends meet.Some of the female drivers told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja, that the move was necesitated due to the economic hardship. NAN reports that the trend is becoming more visible as the women are seen at major junctions and bus stops across the city to pick passengers.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Many private car owners nowadays, most of which were females in luxury cars, now pick up passengers heading to different parts of Abuja. A driver, Mrs Jane Nwaogara, said the development was largely driven by rising transportation costs following increase in pump price of petrol.According to Nwaogara, the mounting household expenses such as school fees, rent and food, calls for additional sources of income.“The economic hardship is biting hard. I have so many bills to pay including my children’s school fees, feeding, utility and medical bills, among others.“Above all these, is the increasing cost in pump price of petrol.“My salary cannot settle all of these, so I need to find additional income, thus my involvement in kabu-kabu business,” she said.Similarly, Mrs Blessing Okafor, a mother of three who operates along the Lugbe to Area 1 route, said she started conveying passengers earlier this year to cope with rising household expenses.“Things are very difficult now. School fees, feeding and house rent are not easy to handle with just one source of income,” she said.Okafor said she decided to use her car to pick passengers during peak hours after realising that many commuters struggled to find affordable transport.“I usually park at the junction in the morning and evening. Sometimes people are surprised when they see a woman driving kabu-kabu, but it is the only way I can support my family,” she said.Another driver, Mrs Habiba Moses, said the increase in fuel prices and the cost of living had made it necessary for many families to look for alternative income sources.“When fuel price goes up, transport fare also increases. Many people cannot afford the regular taxis anymore, so they enter our cars,” she said.According to Moses, the income from conveying passengers helps her to buy fuel, pay utility bills and meet other family needs.Mrs Erica Ekah, said since she adopted the practice of convening passengers to and from work, the issue of money to buy fuel was history.Ekah said: “recently, I discovered that more female drivers, in their very posh cars are beginning to flood major junctions where we park to also pick passengers with their vehicles.”People are really struggling these days , the economy is happening to everyone and no one is ashamed anymore, but are exploring different means of making ends meet.“Transportation is critical to economic growth and issues around it needs to be taken seriously by governments at all levels for the betterment of citizens.”Meanwhile, residents who patronised the service said the growing number of private cars operating as taxis reflected the level of economic pressure facing households in the capital city.Mr Samuel Olatunde, a civil servant, said many workers now relied on side businesses to survive.“My salary alone cannot cover my expenses and i think the same applies to everyone. Some of my colleagues carry passengers after work just to make extra money.“Also, many private vehicles seen around busy junctions during rush hours are owned by workers trying to augment their income,” he said.Some commuters, however, acknowledged that the presence of more private vehicles offering rides had helped reduce waiting time for transport, especially during peak periods.Miss Ruth James, a trader, said , “I see people with very neat cars stopping to pick passengers. Some of them are mostly women who just want to make extra money.“I think the motivation for many of them is simple ‘survival’, they are not doing it for luxury but because the economy is hard and their families depend on them,”she said.Economic analysts say the growing participation of women in informal transport reflected broader economic realities.An economist, Mr Eric Eze, said that worsening economic conditions in Nigeria was pushing more women into sectors traditionally dominated by men, just to generate income.Eze said many households were turning to the informal sector because wages had not kept pace with the rising cost of living.“When income is stagnant and prices and general cost of living keep rising, people naturally look for alternative ways to earn money.“Women in particular, are increasingly entering transport and other informal businesses to maintain household stability.” The expansion of informal taxi services may continue if economic pressures persist and public transportation systems remain inadequate,” he said. (NAN)UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You.","published_at":"2026-03-08T16:09:44+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:49+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"c5f69b8d2c6f5c1fdc9150a140b1558d050f0349","text_fingerprint":"top story hardship how fct women converted their private cars for commercial use taxi operators obstruct traffic flow in jabi abuja yesterday by daily trust sun 8 mar 2026 16 09 44 wat many women in the federal capital territory fct have converted their private cars into informal taxis popularly known as kabu kabu in order to make ends meet some of the female drivers told the news agency of nigeria nan on sunday in abuja that the move was necesitated due to the economic hardship nan reports that the trend is becoming more visible as the women are seen at major junctions and bus stops across th","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"d9c2da4c2a1be5cd","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/anthony-placid-replaces-benjamin-hundeyin-as-force-pro/","title":"Anthony Placid Replaces Benjamin Hundeyin As Force PRO - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Inspector-General of Police, Olatunji Disu, has approved the appointment of Deputy Commissioner of Police, Anthony Placid, as the new Force Public","content_text":"--> Top Story Anthony Placid replaces Benjamin Hundeyin as Force PRO By Daily Trust Sun, 8 Mar 2026 15:08:25 WAT The Inspector-General of Police, Olatunji Disu, has approved the appointment of Deputy Commissioner of Police, Anthony Placid, as the new Force Public Relations Officer of the Nigeria Police Force.This was announced in a statement issued on Sunday by Hundeyin, who signed as the outgoing spokesperson at the Force Headquarters in Abuja. According to the statement, Placid is a seasoned police officer with extensive experience in administration, operations, intelligence, training and international peacekeeping.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Born on December 2, 1970, in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, he hails from Mbiokporo Nsit in Nsit Ibom Local Government Area of the state. Placid holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Geography and Regional Planning from the University of Uyo and a Master of Arts in Law and Diplomacy from the University of Jos.He also studied law at the National Open University of Nigeria for a Bachelor of Laws degree.“Placid was appointed into the Nigeria Police Force as a Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police at the Police Academy, Kano, in 1996, and was commissioned in August 1998.“He has attended several professional and international courses, including United Nations Peace Operations Specialised Training (POST), with certifications as expert in Police Studies, Military Studies, Gender Awareness, International Humanitarian Law, Human Rights, and Civilian Protection. UNITAR Senior Leadership and Peacebuilding course in Kenya“DCP Placid has served in various strategic capacities within and outside the country, including Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Adamawa State; PPRO, Police Staff College, Jos; Chief of Training, African Union Mission in Sudan; Head of Training and Development, United Nations Mission in Darfur; Divisional Police Officer in Federal Housing Calabar, Bakassi, Uruan, and Gembu; Officer-in-Charge, Anti-Robbery Unit, Kaduna State; African Union Election Security Adviser; Assistant Commissioner of Police (Operations) in Akwa Ibom and Kogi States; Assistant Commissioner of Police, Intelligence Department, Abia State; and Deputy in charge of Administration and Finance, Zone 3 Headquarters, Yola.”Placid is also a member of the International Association of Chiefs of Police and a Commonwealth Human Rights Trainer, as well as a trainer with the International Committee of the Red Cross on International Humanitarian Law.He is a graduate of the Senior Executive Course 47 of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, Kuru, and was inducted as a Member of the National Institute (mni) on December 13, 2025, before his redeployment to Cross River State.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You.","published_at":"2026-03-08T15:08:25+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:50+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"a83d84d137fc38368bc4dc0e916f511dac3ef55f","text_fingerprint":"top story anthony placid replaces benjamin hundeyin as force pro by daily trust sun 8 mar 2026 15 08 25 wat the inspector general of police olatunji disu has approved the appointment of deputy commissioner of police anthony placid as the new force public relations officer of the nigeria police force this was announced in a statement issued on sunday by hundeyin who signed as the outgoing spokesperson at the force headquarters in abuja according to the statement placid is a seasoned police officer with extensive experience in administration operations intelligence training and international pea","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"53e91dd5f8e095e6","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/troops-rescue-two-bank-workers-after-foiled-kidnap-attempt-in-taraba/","title":"Troops Rescue Two Kidnapped Bank Workers In Taraba - Daily Trust","snippet":"Troops of the Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) have rescued two kidnap victims during an intelligence-led search operation in Gborgbor Village of Wukari Local","content_text":"--> News Troops Rescue Two Kidnapped Bank Workers in Taraba By Hope Abah, Makurdi Sun, 8 Mar 2026 14:23:37 WAT Troops of the Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) have rescued two kidnap victims during an intelligence-led search operation in Gborgbor Village of Wukari Local Government Area of Taraba State.Spokesperson of OPWS, Lt. Ahmad Zubairu, said on Sunday that the rescue operation was carried out in the early hours of Friday following credible intelligence that armed kidnappers and their captives were hiding within the area. He said that the troops, acting on the intelligence, launched a coordinated search of suspected hideouts in Gborgbor village but initially found no trace of the victims or their captors.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) Zubairu explained that fresh intelligence later revealed that the kidnappers were still operating within the general area, prompting reinforcement of the operation by additional troops led by the sub-sector commander. One Dead, Six Injured in Lagos Autocrash Army dismisses reports on murder of 40 soldiers in BornoHe said the search was subsequently extended to neighbouring settlements, including Tse Anaka village, as troops intensified efforts to locate the victims.According to him, the sustained pressure mounted by the advancing troops forced the kidnappers to abandon their captives and flee.The rescued victims were identified as Marwan Abubakar, 40, and Leng’en Cakop, 37, both staff of Unity Bank in Zaki-Biam, Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State.Zubairu added that although troops did not make direct contact with the fleeing kidnappers, a motorcycle suspected to have been used by the criminals was recovered along the route leading to Tse Anaka village.The Force Commander of OPWS, Major General Moses Gara, commended the troops for their swift response and professionalism during the operation.He said the success of the mission demonstrated the effectiveness of intelligence-driven operations in tackling kidnapping and other criminal activities within the joint operations area.Gara also reassured residents of Benue, Taraba and neighbouring states of the task force’s continued commitment to protecting lives and property.He urged members of the public to continue providing timely and credible information to security agencies.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Bank workersKidnap attemptrescueTarabatroops","published_at":"2026-03-08T14:23:37+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:51+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"518abfb5fc12c20623e6d76f87d1a6292e3e7e1f","text_fingerprint":"news troops rescue two kidnapped bank workers in taraba by hope abah makurdi sun 8 mar 2026 14 23 37 wat troops of the operation whirl stroke opws have rescued two kidnap victims during an intelligence led search operation in gborgbor village of wukari local government area of taraba state spokesperson of opws lt ahmad zubairu said on sunday that the rescue operation was carried out in the early hours of friday following credible intelligence that armed kidnappers and their captives were hiding within the area he said that the troops acting on the intelligence launched a coordinated search of ","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"02570fc93a48736a","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/one-dead-six-injured-in-lagos-autocrash/","title":"One Dead, Six Injured In Lagos Autocrash - Daily Trust","snippet":"A female passenger has died while six others sustained injuries in a road crash involving a commercial bus on Sunday morning in Lagos.","content_text":"--> News One Dead, Six Injured in Lagos Autocrash By Eugene Agha, Lagos Sun, 8 Mar 2026 12:42:27 WAT A female passenger has died while six others sustained injuries in a road crash involving a commercial bus on Sunday morning in Lagos.The accident occurred at New Castle Bus Stop, inward Gbagada, along the Oworonsoki-Apapa Expressway. Eyewitnesses said the commercial bus lost control and rammed into a roadside culvert.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) The impact of the crash reportedly threw a female passenger out of the vehicle onto the expressway. In the process, an oncoming articulated truck ran over her, killing her on the spot. Army dismisses reports on murder of 40 soldiers in Borno DisCos generated N207bn from power bills in December — NERCThe six other occupants of the bus, including the driver, sustained varying degrees of injuries.The General Manager of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Olalekan Bakare-Oki, who confirmed the incident, said preliminary reports showed that the crash involved a Volkswagen commercial bus with registration number LSD 654 XY.According to him, the vehicle veered off the road and rammed into a roadside culvert along the corridor.Bakare-Oki explained that the impact of the collision forcefully ejected the female passenger from the vehicle onto the expressway, after which she was crushed by an oncoming articulated trailer whose driver could not avert the situation.He said officials of LASTMA quickly responded by activating emergency traffic management measures to prevent further accidents.“In order to safeguard other motorists and prevent a secondary crash, LASTMA officials temporarily cordoned off the entire expressway to allow for the evacuation of the deceased, the injured passengers and the wreckage of the Volkswagen commercial bus involved in the lone fatal accident,” he said.He added that the driver of the articulated trailer fled the scene after the incident.“Security men from the Pedro Police Division promptly arrived at the scene to provide vital security reinforcement for traffic management officials and emergency responders while maintaining orderliness around the accident vicinity.“In furtherance of coordinated emergency rescue operations, officials of the Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS) swiftly evacuated the six seriously injured victims, including the driver who reportedly sustained a fractured leg and conveyed them to a nearby medical facility for immediate treatment.“Similarly, personnel of the Lagos State Environmental Health Monitoring Unit (SEHMU) respectfully evacuated the remains of the deceased female passenger from the accident scene.“Following the successful evacuation exercise, LASTMA operatives meticulously cleared all obstructions along the corridor and subsequently restored normal vehicular movement on the main carriageway of the Expressway,” he said.Bakare-Oki also expressed condolences to the family of the deceased passenger, praying for the strength to bear the loss.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. AutocrashdeadinjuredLagos","published_at":"2026-03-08T12:42:27+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:52+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"9f7fa01df53ac4ba91ac66b4e6fdc2e06b17cd5b","text_fingerprint":"news one dead six injured in lagos autocrash by eugene agha lagos sun 8 mar 2026 12 42 27 wat a female passenger has died while six others sustained injuries in a road crash involving a commercial bus on sunday morning in lagos the accident occurred at new castle bus stop inward gbagada along the oworonsoki apapa expressway eyewitnesses said the commercial bus lost control and rammed into a roadside culvert sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid div vi 1716478739 innerhtml viapitag display pw 31466 the impact of the crash reportedly threw a female passenger out of th","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"369091151a4da304","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/middle-east-crisis-could-spiral-beyond-anyones-control-un-chief-warns/","title":"Middle East Crisis Could Spiral Beyond Anyone’s Control, UN Chief Warns - Daily Trust","snippet":"UN Secretary-General António Guterres has warned that with the ongoing crisis in the Middle East, “could spiral beyond anyone’s control”.","content_text":"--> International Middle East crisis could spiral beyond anyone’s control, UN chief warns By Daily Trust Sun, 8 Mar 2026 9:41:05 WAT UN Secretary-General António Guterres has warned that with the ongoing crisis in the Middle East, “could spiral beyond anyone’s control”.“All the unlawful attacks in the Middle East and beyond are causing tremendous suffering and harm to civilians throughout the region,” Guterres said. The UN chief also warned that the crisis “pose a grave a risk to the global economy, particularly to the most vulnerable people”.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) “The situation could spiral beyond anyone’s control. Lagos Coastal Highway: Winhomes CEO clarifies $250m claim, others Zulum: Insurgents hit Ngoshe After Being Chased from Sambisa“It is time to stop the fighting and get to serious diplomatic negotiations. The stakes could not be higher,” Guterres urged.Military strikes and counter-strikes are continuing across the Middle East as the U.S., and Israel wage war on Iran.The crisis has entered its seventh day, with continued strikes and counter-strikes across the region.UN Relief Chief Tom Fletcher has also warned that the world is in “a moment of grave peril.”Fletcher said staggering amounts of money were funding the war, “while politicians continue to boast about cutting aid budgets in greatest need.”UN High Commission for Human Rights (UNHCR) has declared the escalating crisis a major humanitarian emergency, requiring an immediate regional response.UN human rights chief Volker Türk warned the conflict is spreading beyond the initial parties and urged States to take urgent steps to de-escalate.Meanwhile, the Permanent Representative for Iran, Amir Iravani, said his country was not seeking war or escalation “but Iran will never surrender its sovereignty.”Iravani said his country would take all necessary measures to defend itself, its territory and independence.The Iranian ambassador called on all Member States to condemn “this criminal war against the Iranian people”.He called on the Security Council to “act now, firmly, clearly and without delay, warning, failure to act will have catastrophic consequences.“Today it is Iran, tomorrow it could be any other member state.”UN Emergency Relief Coordinator Tom Fletcher, warned that the widening conflict in the Middle East could trigger far-reaching humanitarian consequences well beyond the region.He reiterated his call for renewed commitment to international law and protection for humanitarian workers, stressing that aid teams will continue supporting civilians caught in the escalating violence.Fletcher warned that the world is facing a moment of “grave peril” as conflicts escalate and humanitarian crises become increasingly interconnected.He said the consequences of the fighting risk spiralling beyond the control of those instigating it.The UN relief chief called for an urgent shift towards diplomacy and restraint.“What we need is de-escalation and immediate cessation of hostilities, genuine dialogue and negotiations in line with the Charter of the United Nations. We need calmer heads to prevail.”He regretted that vast resources were being poured into warfare even as humanitarian aid budgets are cut.Fletcher cautioned that the crisis risks diverting attention and resources from other major emergencies, from Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to Ukraine. (NAN)UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Antonio GuterrescontrolMiddle-East crisisspiralUN chief","published_at":"2026-03-08T09:41:05+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:53+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"3096795d919c13b3443c628ebde331ac6cafae85","text_fingerprint":"international middle east crisis could spiral beyond anyone s control un chief warns by daily trust sun 8 mar 2026 9 41 05 wat un secretary general antónio guterres has warned that with the ongoing crisis in the middle east could spiral beyond anyone s control all the unlawful attacks in the middle east and beyond are causing tremendous suffering and harm to civilians throughout the region guterres said the un chief also warned that the crisis pose a grave a risk to the global economy particularly to the most vulnerable people sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid d","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"ffc6e2a7dc78186d","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/army-dismisses-reports-on-murder-of-40-soldiers-in-borno/","title":"Army Dismisses Reports On Murder Of 40 Soldiers In Borno - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Nigerian Army, under the Joint Task Force North East ‘Operation HADIN KAI’, has dismissed the report by online media (not Daily Trust) claiming that over","content_text":"--> Top Story Army dismisses reports on murder of 40 soldiers in Borno By Hamisu Kabir Matazu Sun, 8 Mar 2026 9:08:37 WAT The Nigerian Army, under the Joint Task Force North East ‘Operation HADIN KAI’, has dismissed the report by online media (not Daily Trust) claiming that over 40 soldiers were killed in multiple Boko Haram attacks in Borno State.In a statement by the spokesman of the Operation, Lt. Col. Sani Uba, urged the public to disregard the exaggerated and misleading reports. He said the reports were aimed at undermining the morale of troops who continue to make enormous sacrifices in defence of the nationSPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) “The Nigerian Army under the Joint Task Force North East ‘Operation HADIN KAI’ noted with concern a report alleging that over 40 soldiers were killed during recent terrorist attacks in parts of Borno State. Impeachment: Kwankwasiyya tenders document showing N1.1bn was released with Gov’s approval Al Jazeera Interview: I never knew I would be challenged about my past &#8211; Bwala“The report, which relied largely on unverified sources, presents a distorted account of the incident and fails to reflect the gallant efforts of troops who bravely defended communities against coordinated terrorist assaults.“The attacks on the multiple communities occurred when remnants of the Boko Haram terrorists, who had earlier been dislodged from the Sambisa Forest during sustained offensive operations by troops, regrouped and launched coordinated night attacks from multiple directions on vulnerable communities and troops location around Konduga, Ngoshe, Mainok and Jakana general areas.“The troops on ground responded swiftly and fought gallantly to repel the terrorists and defend the affected communities. During the intense engagements, a number of terrorists were neutralized.“Sadly, a Commanding Officer and some brave soldiers paid the supreme price while courageously confronting the attackers and preventing further devastation on other communities.“It is important to note that the troops were not overrun as portrayed in the report. Rather, they engaged the terrorists from multiple fronts in a determined effort to protect innocent civilians and restore normalcy.“The attackers also employed indiscriminate explosives and heavy night gunfire, which regrettably resulted in civilian casualties, as many residents were caught in the crossfire created by the terrorists’ reckless actions.“The Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Waidi Shaibu, has since visited the theatre of operations in Maiduguri where he met with troops and commanders to reassess the operational situation and strengthen ongoing counter-terrorism efforts.”The statement added that during the visit, he directed the immediate reinforcement of troops and deployment of additional equipment to the affected areas to sustain the momentum against the fleeing terrorists.The Nigerian Army assured Nigerians that it will maintain the operational momentum until all terrorist elements are completely neutralised.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. ArmyBornodismiss reportsMurderSoldiers","published_at":"2026-03-08T09:08:37+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:54+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"12e13ddcf37d51b36aaeabeb7db61d43ae83f598","text_fingerprint":"top story army dismisses reports on murder of 40 soldiers in borno by hamisu kabir matazu sun 8 mar 2026 9 08 37 wat the nigerian army under the joint task force north east operation hadin kai has dismissed the report by online media not daily trust claiming that over 40 soldiers were killed in multiple boko haram attacks in borno state in a statement by the spokesman of the operation lt col sani uba urged the public to disregard the exaggerated and misleading reports he said the reports were aimed at undermining the morale of troops who continue to make enormous sacrifices in defence of the n","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"c8c87565301beef1","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/discos-generated-n207bn-from-power-bills-in-december-nerc/","title":"DisCos Generated N207bn From Power Bills In December — NERC - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) says electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) collected N207.49 billion from customers in December","content_text":"--> News DisCos generated N207bn from power bills in December — NERC Prepaid meter By Daily Trust Sun, 8 Mar 2026 8:49:19 WAT The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) says electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) collected N207.49 billion from customers in December 2025.The regulator disclosed this in its December commercial performance factsheet published on its website in Abuja at the weekend. According to the report, the 11 electricity distribution companies billed consumers N258.66 billion during the month.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) “Out of the billed amount, the companies collected N207.49 billion, leaving a revenue shortfall of N51.17 billion,” the commission said. Impeachment: Kwankwasiyya tenders document showing N1.1bn was released with Gov’s approval Lagos Coastal Highway: Winhomes CEO clarifies $250m claim, othersIt noted that the figures translate to a collection efficiency of 80.22 per cent across the 11 electricity distribution companies operating on the national grid.The factsheet said the utilities received electricity worth N309.65 billion from the grid in December.However, only N258.66 billion of the energy supplied was successfully billed to customers, representing a billing efficiency of 83.53 per cent.The regulator said the actual average revenue realised by DisCos stood at N98.97 per kilowatt hour.This compares with an allowed average tariff of N124.30 per kilowatt hour, giving the industry a revenue recovery efficiency of 79.62 per cent.A breakdown showed that Abuja Electricity Distribution Company recorded the highest revenue collection during the month.The company collected N38.11 billion from N46.68 billion billed, representing a collection efficiency of 81.64 per cent.Ikeja Electric collected N36.20 billion out of N43.41 billion billed, achieving 83.38 per cent collection efficiency.Similarly, Eko Electricity Distribution Company realised N38.01 billion from N41.41 billion billed, translating to 91.79 per cent collection efficiency.The commission said Benin Electricity Distribution Company collected N18.38 billion from N21.53 billion billed.It added that Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company recovered N17.62 billion out of N21.6 billion billed.Also, Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company collected N23.60 billion from N28.34 billion billed.Enugu Electricity Distribution Company realised N17.57 billion from N23.08 billion billed during the review period.Kano Electricity Distribution Company collected N8.98 billion from N15.64 billion billed, representing 57.45 per cent collection efficiency.The report added that Yola Electricity Distribution Company realised N3.55 billion from N4.25 billion billed.According to the regulator, Jos Electricity Distribution Company recorded the lowest collection efficiency at 42.92 per cent.It said the company collected N5.43 billion from N12.67 billion billed in December.The commission, however, noted that data for Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company was unavailable.It attributed the gap to an ongoing upgrade of the company’s billing system to meet regulatory requirements. (NAN)UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. DisCosgenerateN200bnNERCPower bills","published_at":"2026-03-08T08:49:19+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:55+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"ffb0cfc62a387d1f75cf36ab0d74b3f45625ebb4","text_fingerprint":"news discos generated n207bn from power bills in december nerc prepaid meter by daily trust sun 8 mar 2026 8 49 19 wat the nigerian electricity regulatory commission nerc says electricity distribution companies discos collected n207 49 billion from customers in december 2025 the regulator disclosed this in its december commercial performance factsheet published on its website in abuja at the weekend according to the report the 11 electricity distribution companies billed consumers n258 66 billion during the month sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid div vi 17164787","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"08e682c788251bbc","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/police-begin-screening-for-constable-recruitment/","title":"Police Begin Screening For Constable Recruitment - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Police command in Jigawa has concluded arrangements for physical and credentials screening of applicants seeking recruitment from the state.","content_text":"--> News Police begin screening for constable recruitment police recruitment By Daily Trust Sun, 8 Mar 2026 8:39:35 WAT The Police command in Jigawa has concluded arrangements for physical and credentials screening of applicants seeking recruitment from the state.The command’s spokesperson, SP Shiisu Lawan, disclosed this in a statement issued in Dutse. Lawan said the screening would hold from March 9 to April 18 at the Police State Headquarters, Dutse.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) He advised applicants to visit the recruitment portal to check their status and print required documents for presentation at the screening venue. Impeachment: Kwankwasiyya tenders document showing N1.1bn was released with Gov’s approval Lagos Coastal Highway: Winhomes CEO clarifies $250m claim, othersApplicants are expected to appear strictly on the date stated on their invitation slips.“The Jigawa State Police Command informs applicants that physical and credentials screening for recruitment into the Nigeria Police Force will begin on March 9, 2026,” he said.The screening, he added, would continue until April 18 at the Police State Headquarters, Dutse.“The dress code is white canvas shoes, white T-shirt, white shorts and white stockings,” Lawan said.He said applicants must present their application submission slip, physical screening form, invitation slip with table number, and credentials screening form.Other required documents include National Identity Number printout or card, O’Level certificates, and birth certificate or age declaration.Applicants must also provide local government or state of origin certificate, trade test result for specialists, guarantor’s form with passport photographs, and other relevant credentials.Lawan warned that candidates without required documents, proper dress, or those arriving outside scheduled dates would not participate.Quoting the state Commissioner of Police, Dahiru Muhammad, Lawan urged shortlisted applicants to remain orderly and follow the guidelines.“Muhammad emphasised that the recruitment process is completely free and urged the public to report anyone demanding money.“The command encourages applicants to cooperate fully with officials to ensure a smooth and successful screening exercise,” Lawan added. (NAN)UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. Constable recruitmentJigawaPolicescreening","published_at":"2026-03-08T08:39:35+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:56+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"46d63e82115f97f204437b6785e462945685b4f3","text_fingerprint":"news police begin screening for constable recruitment police recruitment by daily trust sun 8 mar 2026 8 39 35 wat the police command in jigawa has concluded arrangements for physical and credentials screening of applicants seeking recruitment from the state the command s spokesperson sp shiisu lawan disclosed this in a statement issued in dutse lawan said the screening would hold from march 9 to april 18 at the police state headquarters dutse sponsor ad viapitag display pw 31467 else document getelementbyid div vi 1716478739 innerhtml viapitag display pw 31466 he advised applicants to visit t","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"bee3d5d4fb0c0fae","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/impeachment-kwankwasiyya-tenders-document-showing-n1-1bn-was-released-with-govs-approval/","title":"Impeachment: Kwankwasiyya Tenders Document Showing N1.1bn Was Released With Gov’s Approval - Daily Trust","snippet":"The Kwankwasiyya political movement in Kano state has countered allegations of misappropriating N1.1bn against the Deputy Governor of the state, Aminu","content_text":"--> Top Story Impeachment: Kwankwasiyya tenders document showing N1.1bn was released with Gov’s approval By Sani I. Paki Sun, 8 Mar 2026 8:21:18 WAT The Kwankwasiyya political movement in Kano state has countered allegations of misappropriating N1.1bn against the Deputy Governor of the state, Aminu Abdussalam Gwarzo, saying it has documents showing the said money was released with the approval of Governor Abba Yusuf.The State House of Assembly has on Thursday served impeachment notice to the Deputy Governor over allegations of gross misconduct, abuse of office, and breach of public trust. In the impeachment notice, signed by 38 out of 40 lawmakers in the assembly, Gwarzo was accused of financial impropriety during his tenure as Commissioner for Local Government and in his current role as Deputy Governor.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) However, documents dated between April and June 2024 revealed a different narrative. Army dismisses reports on murder of 40 soldiers in Borno DisCos generated N207bn from power bills in December — NERCThe official document released by the movement and sighted by our reporter showed that the controversial N1.1 billion allocation for water and drug supplies across the 44 local government councils was duly approved by the governor.On 15 April 2024, the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Kano State chapter, wrote to the Ministry for Local Government requesting funds to address acute water shortages and drug supplies.The request was endorsed by the Deputy Governor and later escalated to the Governor.One memo to Governor Yusuf stated: “Your Excellency may wish to note that the sum of N25,000,000.00 per LGA was proposed by the 44 Local Government Interim Management Committee Chairmen under ALGON leadership to be sourced from the State/Local Government Joint Account… Grand Total N1,100,000,000.00.”By May 14. 2024, the Deputy Governor formally requested the Governor’s approval for the release of the funds, in a memo with reference number MLG/INS/MEE/1-2 and dated 20th May 2024, stressing that the intervention would “go a long way in resolving problems of acute shortage of portable water across the 44 Local Governments as well as assisting the less privileged towards accessing qualitative drugs.”The approval was eventually conveyed on 10 June 2024 in a letter signed by Abubakar S. Dabo, Director of Local Government Inspection, on behalf of the Commissioner.The breakdown of the allocation was slightly adjusted to include N10 million per LGA for maintenance and repairs of boreholes and open wells, N15 million per LGA for supply of drugs and medical equipment, which sums up to N25 million per LGAS that amounts to N1.1 billion.Kwankwasiyya leaders argue that these documents clearly demonstrate that the Deputy Governor acted within official mandate and with the Governor’s full consent, dismissing the Assembly’s allegations as politically motivated.The impeachment proceedings come at a time of heightened political tension in Kano, following Governor Yusuf’s defection from the NNPP to the APC.Analysts say the move against Gwarzo reflects both legal and political calculations, and is likely initiated after Gwarzo refused to defect with his principal to APC and chosed to remain in NNPP/Kwankwasiyya.The Deputy Governor has been given two weeks to respond to the allegations.If his defense is deemed unsatisfactory, the Assembly is expected to set up an investigative panel in line with Section 188 of the 1999 Constitution.Efforts to hear from the state government has proved abortive as the state Commissioner for Information and Internal Affair, Ibrahim Abdullahi Waiya, promised to get back to our reporter but had not done so as at the time of filing this report.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. documentGov’s approvalimpeachmentKwankwasiyyareleased","published_at":"2026-03-08T08:21:18+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:57+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"6203098a23219f37e00e891e6bb0257d0795bac0","text_fingerprint":"top story impeachment kwankwasiyya tenders document showing n1 1bn was released with gov s approval by sani i paki sun 8 mar 2026 8 21 18 wat the kwankwasiyya political movement in kano state has countered allegations of misappropriating n1 1bn against the deputy governor of the state aminu abdussalam gwarzo saying it has documents showing the said money was released with the approval of governor abba yusuf the state house of assembly has on thursday served impeachment notice to the deputy governor over allegations of gross misconduct abuse of office and breach of public trust in the impeachme","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
{"id":"343ed07548bc02f0","source_name":"Daily Trust","source_domain":"dailytrust.com","source_list_url":"https://dailytrust.com/feed","source_type":"rss","article_url":"https://dailytrust.com/lagos-coastal-highway-winhomes-ceo-clarifies-250m-claim-others/","title":"Lagos Coastal Highway: Winhomes CEO Clarifies $250m Claim, Others - Daily Trust","snippet":"Stella Okengwu, Chief Executive Officer of WINHOMES Global Services Limited, has responded to recent claims and press statements issued by the Federal","content_text":"--> Lagos Lagos Coastal Highway: Winhomes CEO clarifies $250m claim, others By Daily Trust Sun, 8 Mar 2026 0:19:32 WAT Stella Okengwu, Chief Executive Officer of WINHOMES Global Services Limited, has responded to recent claims and press statements issued by the Federal Controller of Works and some subscribers regarding the controversy surrounding the Lagos–Calabar Coastal Road and the WINHOMES estate development.Addressing journalists, Okengwu clarified that the widely reported $250 million figure being circulated in the media does not represent the compensation the company is demanding from the government. According to her, the amount refers to the estimated Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) that WINHOMES attracted from diaspora and international partners into Nigeria’s real estate sector through the estate project.SPONSOR AD ';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31467\");}else{document.getElementById(\"div-vi-1716478739\").innerHTML='';viAPItag.display(\"pw_31466\");}}) She explained that diaspora-driven real estate investment contributes billions of dollars to Nigeria’s economy annually, with WINHOMES forming part of that investment inflow. Army dismisses reports on murder of 40 soldiers in Borno DisCos generated N207bn from power bills in December — NERCOkengwu stated that the company’s request to the government is strictly limited to compensation for the specific portion of land affected by the diversion of the Lagos–Calabar Coastal Road, noting that the amount involved is far lower than $250 million.She emphasized that, under the constitutional principles guiding compulsory acquisition and eminent domain, the government retains the authority to acquire land for public purposes but must provide fair and lawful compensation for affected property and improvements.Responding to claims that only a gatehouse was destroyed during the road construction process, the WINHOMES CEO maintained that the site was already an active estate development project and not bare land as suggested in some reports.She explained that significant preparatory and structural works had been carried out before the road diversion occurred. These included clearing dense forest, grading the land and establishing internal road layouts, as well as carrying out large-scale sand filling and embankment works to stabilize the soil.Okengwu further disclosed that over 30,000 truckloads of sand had already been deployed for the project alongside drainage preparation, road construction activities, and the mobilisation of heavy equipment such as bulldozers and payloaders.She added that the project also involved community settlements and corporate social responsibility commitments with host families, the construction of the estate gatehouse, and the foundation stage of a proposed 21-storey development structure.According to her, such developments are legally recognized as fixtures and capital improvements, which must be considered when compensation assessments are conducted.On why government should engage directly with WINHOMES regarding compensation, Okengwu explained that the company remains the legal estate developer and project holder.She said subscribers purchased their plots through WINHOMES rather than directly from the government or indigenous families.Consequently, she argued that established real estate practice requires the government to deal with the project developer, who would in turn coordinate and settle affected subscribers. Allowing individuals to pursue compensation independently, she warned, could lead to duplicate claims and legal uncertainty.The WINHOMES chief also addressed allegations relating to competing ownership claims involving another entity, stating that such matters are currently being examined within the legal process.She maintained that the company lawfully acquired the land from indigenous families and commenced development before the road diversion occurred, adding that any overlapping claims would ultimately be resolved through the courts and verified land registry records.Okengwu concluded by reiterating that WINHOMES remains committed to transparency and a lawful resolution of the dispute while protecting the investments of its subscribers.She stressed that the company’s goal is not confrontation with the authorities but fair treatment under the law, which would allow the estate project to be redesigned, stabilised, and eventually delivered responsibly.She expressed optimism that with good-faith engagement from all parties, the matter could be resolved in a way that supports both public infrastructure development and private investment in Nigeria’s real estate sector.UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works. Join Daily Trust WhatsApp Community For Quick Access To News and Happenings Around You. claimcoastal highwayLagosStella OkengwuWinhomes CEO","published_at":"2026-03-08T00:19:32+01:00","fetched_at":"2026-03-08T16:47:58+01:00","language":"en","query_label":null,"exact_hash":"adf0aece291e907352ba60c72f04d09cdc0be4ba","text_fingerprint":"lagos lagos coastal highway winhomes ceo clarifies 250m claim others by daily trust sun 8 mar 2026 0 19 32 wat stella okengwu chief executive officer of winhomes global services limited has responded to recent claims and press statements issued by the federal controller of works and some subscribers regarding the controversy surrounding the lagos calabar coastal road and the winhomes estate development addressing journalists okengwu clarified that the widely reported 250 million figure being circulated in the media does not represent the compensation the company is demanding from the governmen","exact_duplicate":false,"status":"new"}
